We're seeing a bifurcated S&P 500
[music] for sure.
>> The AI theme is best expressed right now
in US large-cap [music] growth stocks.
>> It's hard to know who's in a bubble.
>> We are seeing a weakening [music] in the
overall AI story.
>> If it is in fact a bubble, nobody knows
when it will pop.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, whipsawed by verbal
intervention.
Well, other countries have come to me
and they've said we were getting ready
to do a very major attack tomorrow. I've
put it off for a little while, hopefully
maybe forever because we've had very big
discussions with the Iran.
And we'll see what they amount to. The
White House claiming against the laying
plan military strikes happens to reduce
the tension and putting a lid on crude's
advance as the Treasury is opening the
door for energy starved nations to buy
some Russian crude.
>> Which is so interesting cuz the Treasury
Secretary is meeting with his
counterparts right now with Paris and
his opening remarks was about making
sure that they up the sanctions when it
comes to Iran when this administration
is extending a waiver to let countries
buy Russian crude for another 30 days.
Says to me Jonathan that they are very
concerned about potentially the premium
we were going to see in the oil market
that is going to drip into the gasoline
market here in the United States.
>> The blockade phase, and we should call
it that, has lasted longer than the
so-called kinetic phase. The military
strikes feel like a long, long time ago.
The blockade phase comes with its own
problems. So, you need to do these
tweaks here, there, and everywhere to
make sure that everyone's got enough
energy. That's going to get more
problematic in the months to come.
>> Which is why it was so interesting
yesterday with an Iranian news agency
coming out and saying the administration
as part of negotiations were saying
we're going to lift, give you some
waivers, lift some sanctions to get
Iranian [music] crude moving, why would
you do that if you had the blockade? I
go to what UBS's Paul Donovan had to
say. He said equities failed to rally
cuz no attack is the status [music] quo.
Why did the president come out with this
truth saying that he's holding off on a
planned military strike when he didn't
tell the world that he was actually
going to make that military strike.
>> quo comes with its own problems. You'll
notice this morning that crude is
pulling back just a little bit. Look at
what's not happening. No rally in the
bond market. No rally in equities.
Yields are higher across the curve.
Two's 10's 30's look like this this
morning. 10's back through 460 up
[music] by two basis points on the
session. This from City. I see markets
under pricing the risk of a Fed rate
hike starting the year. Jim McCormick.
It's incredibly worrisome for some of
these banks that are now going from
potentially we're going to have rate
cuts to now having to price in rate
hikes. This is another top discussion
happening right now at the G7.
>> [music]
>> The French finance minister basically
put it, yes energy prices are higher,
yes inflation is higher, we might as
well be worried about low growth aka
stagflation. But you know what? On the
on optimistic and they were all smiles
yesterday in a selfie, we're not in a
recession.
>> Still it's difficult, still difficult to
internalize the prospect of a rate hike
at some point this year. And I know I'm
not the only one. Check out this
language coming from Standard Chartered.
We need to talk about this story.
They're planning job cuts and this is
how they're communicating them. Bill
Winters over at [music] Standard
Chartered with this quote. It's not cost
cutting, it's replacing in some cases
lower value human capital with the
financial capital and the investment
capital we're putting in. They have got
to come up with a better way of talking
[music] about this than lower value
human capital.
>> 100%. This is not how you address your
staff. This is not how you address the
public. And if you are say a top tier
student coming out of university [music]
and you're getting offers across the
banking sector, are you going to work
for a company that regards you as low
value human capital that maybe you're
going to be replaced in 6 months by a
bot.
>> It's not good look. Think about the
commencement speech we saw over the
weekend.
>> All the booze.
>> former Google boss and a host of other
individuals as well getting booed by the
graduate class of 2026. So you have
these luminaries stand up on the stage
and say, "Look, the future's going to be
bright. [music] What's happening in
technology is going to be amazing. This
is like an industrial revolution time."
And you're the students are sitting
there and they're booing. Do you know
why?
>> [music]
>> They're worried about job prospects.
They're seeing their job prospects
basically be evaporated by Claude,
Google Gemini, and the like.
>> Speaking of technology, the JP Morgan
Global Technology Conference taking
place in Boston. That's where Bramo is
this morning. We'll catch up with Lisa a
little bit later this morning 6:30
Eastern time. Kevin Brunner, the global
chair of technology over at JP Morgan.
Do not miss
>> [music]
>> that conversation. Equity futures this
morning on the S&P slightly lower but
down by 0.4% coming up this hour. We'll
catch up with Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth as tech stocks slide. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall as President Trump calls
off fresh attacks on Iran and Jeff
Currie of Abax Markets on the next
commodity super cycle. We begin this
hour with stocks struggling to rally
following back-to-back losses. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth writing,
"Equities became overbought and narrow
with an upside driven by a small cohort
of names. This was a recipe for a pause
in the recent powerful moves." Cameron
joins us now for more. Cam, good
morning. Good morning.
>> Is that what this is? Just a pause or
something more than that? Well, it's
perfectly normal and perfectly prudent
to see markets pause after having what
was a very parabolic advance in a narrow
cohort of names that were driving the
vast majority of the upside in the
overall market because they became such
a huge weight in the index. And we were
seeing certain extremes in some of this
trading. You saw flows into leverage
ETFs, option flows being very extreme,
and you also saw this this narrowness
really not be consistent with an overall
new high in market. So, it made this
fragile. We think it is a pause, but at
the end of the day, when you have an
over 18% weight in a cohort of names
that went vertically up, a simple
correction in those names back to trend
could be damaging for the overall market
cap-weighted index.
>> What do you think the bond market fits
into this? New numbers again this
morning, we're back to 460, 30s pushing
520 now, getting closer at 550 and up
two basis points today. Where does that
fit into your outlook? I think that
equity markets were able to ignore the
bond market and ignore oil as well for a
period of time when it was effectively
re-rating semiconductors after a huge
upside move in those earnings. Meaning
that the earnings were moving up so much
that you had the ability to look through
everything else. Now, you've effectively
reset the earnings, you've reset the
valuations on those semiconductor names,
and so now the overall equity market has
to look around and say, "Is this
valuation consistent with a 10-year at
4.6%?"
And what does that 10-year tell us?
Because it's not necessarily just
because growth is coming in a little bit
better than expected, it's also because
inflation is coming in hotter. What does
that mean for policy? What does that
mean for financial conditions?
>> Let's get to the policy call. So, I
mentioned the night over at Citi, Jim
McCormick, of course Andrew Hollenhorst
will have his own view on things. I
think they're still looking for three
rate cuts, but from the market's
perspective, do you think they're
under-pricing a rate hike and a rate
hike that might come this year? Yeah,
the WRAP screen shows a 62% chance of a
rate hike by the end of the year. You
have a two-year yield that's now about
30 basis above the basis points above
the Fed funds rate. So, we've been
saying it's not a very warm wash welcome
because that's a really tough position
to be in when you are expected to cut
rates. So, there has been a little bit
of an easing in some of the commentary
we think coming out of Trump about the
urgency to cut rates, which just means
that we we had been talking about the
potential that Bostic could be pushed to
dissent at his first meeting, which
would be absolutely wild, a bit
unprecedented. It seems like he now has
a bit more wiggle room to say, given the
movement higher in inflation, given the
ability for for unemployment to remain
stable around 4.3% that we don't have
that same urgency. It really depends on
whether or not you see inflation
metastasize throughout the overall
economy, meaning that core measures
start to pull up in a more meaningful
way that could get them to hike rates.
We think for now it's a hold. And he's
getting sworn in on Friday, so
potentially maybe that's why the
president is lowering the temperature in
terms of the rhetoric, but at the same
time he's going to be there without a
Steve Meyerin. Who would line up with
him in terms of a dissent?
>> Yeah, it's a really good question
because he's taking Meyerin's seat, so
we effectively move remove a dovish dot
from the dot plot, assuming that the dot
plot does stay around, but it does move
the center of gravity of the Fed over
into a more hawkish stance, which just
puts him in a tougher position to be
able to get everybody to coalesce around
his views. You know, the question we
have is whether the bond market believes
in their in their willingness to defend
the 2% inflation target. The thing that
continues to catch our eye, look at
10-year break evens. They're at the
highest level they've been since 2022.
They've moved up by about 30 basis
points. It doesn't sound like a lot, but
that is a lot for break even since the
start of the war. So the bond market
seems to have a lot more consternation
that maybe this new Fed isn't as serious
as getting inflation back to that 2%
target. If the war persists, are they
going to be forced to hike and not just
look through this? It depends again on
the on the metastasizing of this
inflation. If we continue to see
inflation really just be in that
headline number, where it's staying
remains contained in energy prices, we
do expect it to move into food prices,
but not show up in other portions of
inflation measures, then they can have
this potential to look through it. It
really depends, I think, also on wage
growth as well. That's really the
ability for higher inflation to be
passed on and into other areas. And what
we're seeing now is that wage growth
remains anemic because the job market
isn't necessarily as robust for new
jobs. But the problem you have for
consumers in that environment is that
real wage growth is now negative. And
so, as you think about the consumption
outlook through the end of the year, you
have effectively little upside for
consumers simply because real wage
growth is is negative. You're seeing
that in the way that markets are trading
as well. Equal weight discretionary
versus staples is rolling over. And
you're seeing a concomitant cut in
consumer household consumption forecasts
within GDP. They've gone from 2.1% to
1.8%. So, the market is pricing in some
of this consumer
worry. Do you think a lack of clarity
around the incoming Fed chair and his
personal view on his reaction function,
so to speak? Do you think that's
complicating things as well?
I I think it is to an extent. I mean,
the the old phrase is that the bond
market always tests the new Fed chair.
And potentially he was more dovish in
the interviews and will be more hawkish
going into it. But at the end once he's
in the seat. But this is a global
phenomenon. Look at what you see, of
course, with UK yields, Japanese yields.
I thought that the Japanese GDP data was
really interesting. It came in hot on
real GDP. The GDP deflator came in hot.
So, you effectively have nominal GDP in
Japan at 5 and 1/2%. With a 2.8% 10-year
Japanese yield. So, as much as we're
we're talking about what's going on with
the Fed, the reality is is this is a
global bond market that has a lower and
lower appetite for duration. Japan, the
UK, Germany. It's not just the US. Cam,
it's good to see you. Cam Merdol of New
Edge Wealth is going to be sticking with
us to respond to what's happening over
in the Middle East in just a moment.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. Here's Ronnie Quinn.
Hey, Ronnie. Hey, Jon. Good morning.
President Donald Trump calling off what
he says were a plan to strike zone Iran
for today.
Trump is saying Gulf allies asked for
more time to seek a diplomatic
>> [music]
>> resolution. Adding the US remains
prepared to attack if an acceptable deal
is not reached.
Home Depot shares are higher in the
pre-market. The company didn't meet
estimates on net sales in the first
quarter. Sales at locations open at
least a year though rising just 0.6%
[music]
and that missed estimates. Home Depot's
core business has faced high housing
prices and a pullback on customers
taking on larger projects.
Standard Charter says it's replacing
quote lower value human capital with
technology. CEO Bill Winters saying the
bank will cut more than 15% of its back
office roles over the next 4 years.
And that is your Bloomberg [music]
brief, John. I don't think you need to
call McKinsey to fix that one. Funny,
thank you. Just get in a room and come
up with a better name than that.
>> Yeah. That's a phrase.
>> That's not a good phrase. Whoever
Whoever decided to give that advice to
the CEO, [music] I'm sorry to say it,
that person should be fired. Maybe AI
would have given him a better response.
>> than that, yeah.
>> Honestly. That's not a good look. Up
next on the program, holding fire
against Iran.
Well, other countries have come to me
and they've said we were getting ready
to do a very major attack tomorrow. I
put it off for a little while. Hopefully
maybe forever. Up next we'll catch up
with Bloomberg's Scarlet Kendall live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Kicking off earnings from the big retail
players earlier on this morning about 15
minutes ago. Slightly softer from Home
Depot. [music]
Looking ahead you'll get numbers from
Target and Walmart. The big one, of
course, coming up on Wednesday after the
close, [music] we'll have numbers from
Nvidia. Heading into all of that, equity
futures just a little bit softer, down
by about a third of 1% on the S&P,
[music]
following a back-to-back slide on the
S&P 500. Minor losses yesterday, very
mild stuff, but still the first 2-day
losing streak we've seen so [music] far
through the month of May. In the bond
market, yields still elevated, up this
morning by two basis points at the long
end of the curve, 10s at 460, 30s around
514, getting closer and closer to 520.
Even with this move in commodities this
morning, pulling back on both Brent
[music] and WTI. Brent crude still
around 110 and down by close to 2%.
>> So, oil potentially is leaning into the
fact that [music] clearly this
administration does not want to go back
to strikes, does not want to go back to
kinetic war. Everyone else is sort of
confused. Is this, you know, the wolf
the boy who cried wolf once again?
Because why did the president [music]
come out and say you're holding off on
planned strikes when he didn't tell the
American people he was going back to the
said planned strike? So, it felt like he
was looking potentially maybe for
something he gets usually with an Axios
article.
>> Whipsawed by verbal intervention, once
again, and that's been the experience of
the last 2 months. Under Savannah's this
morning, holding fire against Iraq.
Well, other countries have come to me
and they've said we were getting ready
to do a very major attack tomorrow. I
put it off for a little while, hopefully
maybe forever, but possibly for a little
while.
Cuz we've had
very big discussions with Iran, and
we'll see what they amount to. I was
asked by Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, some
others if we could put it off for
two or three days, a short period of
time, because they think that they are
getting very close to making a deal. So,
here's the latest this morning, the
president pausing planned strikes on
Iran. The decision giving Gulf allies
more time to continue diplomatic efforts
with Tehran. Bloomberg's Dana Chandler
has the latest from Washington. Hey,
Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump says that this planned attack is
off for now as he credits these regional
allies for pushing for a deal. Saudi
Arabia, Qatar, the UAE have all
repeatedly been targeted amid this
conflict, but keep in mind the president
did keep the threat of escalation on the
table going on in that post on Truth
Social to say that he advised his
national security team to be ready at
quote a moment's notice for a
large-scale attack. At this point, the
White House didn't provide any
additional details to us on what this
planned attack would have entailed as
the president has long maintained that
there could be the threat of military
escalation while also maintaining that a
diplomatic solution is still viable. I
will point out that our own analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say that their
analysis is that the White House very
likely could revert to short and intense
strikes in a bid to change the status
quo amid reporting that the president
has been advised in recent weeks that
limited strikes could help push Iran to
the negotiating table because the latest
is yet just yesterday both sides did
reject the freshest counter proposals as
Iran says that it is not interested in
negotiating around curbs on its nuclear
program and the US says its naval
blockade isn't going anywhere. In fact,
CENTCOM confirmed just yesterday that so
far the US has redirected 85 commercial
ships in its efforts to secure the
strait. John, we're hearing from these
regional allies. We'll see if any other
headlines come from other countries
later today as Russian President
Vladimir Putin visits China where he is
expected to discuss the ongoing conflict
in Iran with Chinese President Xi
Jinping. Tyler, price of gasoline up
again today, $4.53 as we go into
Memorial Day holiday weekend. What's the
administration doing when it comes to
gas prices?
Well, Anne Marie, at this point
President Trump has proposed that we
could see a temporary suspension of the
federal gas tax. It is our understanding
that lawmakers are set to unveil new
legislation related to this in the
coming days, but at this point we don't
really have a firm timeline on when that
would pass, and there are some questions
on just how big an impact that really
could have. This is an issue that has
been plaguing the administration. As we
know, affordability remains the top
concern as we head into the midterms. A
very pertinent conversation for today as
a flurry of states are holding their
primaries, and we know that President
Trump is facing the pressure when it
comes to the cost of living. Still, many
Trump-backed candidates are winning
their primaries, and the president at
this point is trying to urge patience
with the American people saying that
this will only be a short-term
disruption as we know that those costs
are still filtering down. Tanya Caldwell
with the latest from the nation's
capital. Tanya, thank you. We need to
define what short-term disruption is
now. We're 2 months into this,
approaching 3 months, and maybe going
through the summer. A lot of people at
the beginning thought 1 month was too
long. 1 month, too long, and now we're
in multiple months. And at some point
you have to sit here and say this is not
about the short term anymore. This is
the status quo, and it continues. You
have to plan for the rest of the year,
basically, and maybe as well into next
year. When you talk to the
administration about this, they quickly
push back and rattle off the Iraq War,
Vietnam, Afghanistan, etc., and they say
comparatively this is very short. The
issue is when they presented this to the
American people, they said it was going
to be an incredibly short, just a few
weeks, and now to your point, we're
months into this conflict.
>> does the consumer feel about things? We
know the sentiment, if you look at
UMich, is rock bottom at record lows.
We'll get corporations reporting
throughout this week. We had Home Depot
a moment ago, weaker than expected.
You'll hear from Target and Walmart
later this week. Cameron Dawson of New
Edge Wealth is still with us. Cam, when
you look at the data, what are you
paying attention to, and what are you
ignoring with regards to how the
consumer feels and what the consumer is
doing? Yeah, well, the the mantra over
the last 4 years has been watch what
they do, not what they say. Is that
sentiment has been in the doldrums for
quite some time and yet they've
continued to spend. I think the big
question is is now that we're back in
this period where real wage growth is
negative, do we see spending start to
moderate? We go back to the last time we
had negative real wage growth, it was
back in 2022 during the last inflation
spike. The difference with 2022 is that
savings overall were higher and you had
a more room for the savings rate to
drop. So effectively there was a cushion
that consumers had to dip into in order
to keep spending even though real wage
growth was negative. The big question is
is as we go into this summer, could we
see them start to pull back on spending?
Does that start to show up in things
like economic surprises? Remember
there's a really tight relationship with
economic surprises and the 10-year
yield. So if you're looking for a bond
rally, that could be the source of it.
>> What's the relationship between that and
the stock market? Weighted to something
very, very different away from the US
consumer. When we think of some equity
investors of when geopolitical events
matter, it's when you have a prolonged
increase in oil and retail gasoline
prices that eventually weighs on GDP and
eventually weighs on earnings. And
that's been the disconnect this time
around. We're cutting GDP estimates but
we're raising earnings estimates, not
because the economy is necessarily
holding up broadly on a better basis.
It's because you have this one cohort of
names being the semiconductors who are
seeing massive earnings estimate
upsides. You see in the socks increase
its 2026 estimate by by 42% this year.
That masks a lot of weakness under the
surface and you see it within the GDP
line as well. Look at household
consumption forecasts going down but
private fixed investment going up. So
were it not for AI, this would be a
very, very different story for the
economy as well as the overall equity
market. You mentioned Cameron what
happened last time we saw higher
inflation and consumers went into their
savings. Aren't they getting tax refunds
that are bigger than they normally would
this time around? How is that helping
them? Well, it's effectively helping to
offset some of the increase in oil
prices. What effectively the math has
been working out is that the increase in
gas prices has effectively offset the
benefit from the OBB. The big question
is is how long do these gas prices
persist? It is a duration question. So
now that we're effectively offset
offsetting those tax
cuts, if we continue to see oil prices
and gasoline prices remain elevated
through the end of the year, we're
watching the Brent December futures like
a hawk. Effectively saying that's the
market finally coming around to the fact
that this could be a more prolonged
issue. And if you continue to see high
gasoline prices, then that's where
you'll start to see the pain. So it all
comes down to duration. At any point
will higher gas prices hurt the likes of
a company like Nvidia that are holding
up the S&P 500?
>> Yeah, we'd like to think that we all do
breathe the same economic air, but it's
multiple steps away. I mean, the people
who are paying for all of this capex are
companies like Google and Meta who are
primarily advertising companies. Meta is
98% of its business is coming from
advertising. That is a cyclical business
that is in fact related to overall
economic growth. Don't forget Meta had
negative revenue growth in a year like
2022. So if you were to see more
pronounced economic weakness, then
certainly it could filter through
because the reason they've been able to
spend so much on Nvidia chips is because
their core business is so strong because
the economy has been holding up. Cameron
Dawson, New Edge Wealth Counsel, it's
good to see you. Thank you. You reminded
me to look at the December futures
contract on the Brent curve. Looking at
the Brent futures curve, we're trading
above 90 all the way out through
December. December, that contract right
now as I'm looking at it, 91.55.
>> Market starting to wake up that this
might be a prolonged conflict or at
minimum this might mean that
structurally it has changed in the
region where Iran has a bigger control
of the Strait of Hormuz and it might not
be smooth sailing as it once was and you
have to start to incorporate more
geopolitical risk premium into the oil
price.
>> Not be smooth sailing for Kevin Warsh
either over the Federal Reserve. This is
why things are slightly different
compared to how they have been over the
last 10-15 years or so. The last few Fed
chairs have come from the existing
Federal Reserve board. So they aren't
unknown entities so to speak. Neither is
Kevin Warsh but this is slightly
different. He hasn't been on the board
for a long long time. We understand his
views but only really in media circles
when he's sort of having a go at the
balance sheet and QE and things like
that. We don't really know what Kevin
Warsh stands for coming into this
Federal Reserve. Things are slightly
different compared to what we knew about
Powell and what we knew about Yellen.
That's why this first meeting is going
to be fascinating. Is it the Kevin Warsh
that we knew when he once was at the Fed
who was a hawk or the individual that
interviewed the President United States
and gave testimony that sounded very
dovish? Which Kevin Warsh is actually
going to show up? Yields slightly
elevated across the curve again this
morning. Twos just north of 4%. [music]
10s back above 460 and 30s. 30s just
feel unhinged worldwide at the moment.
The long end of the curve feels very
untethered. Yields up by two basis
points 514 [music]
on 30s. Up next we'll catch up with
Kevin Brunner of JP Morgan on the
outlook for tech investments and M&A.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Pulling further back from all [music]
time highs on the S&P this morning
negative by 0.4%.
Back-to-back losses on the S&P [music]
the first two-day losing streak off the
month so far. Yesterday's losses very
mild. A turnaround in the equity market
as we got a bit of verbal intervention
from the president about delayed planned
attacks we didn't know were even
happening. In the commodity market right
right crude pulling back. Brent and WTI.
Brent down to 110, [music] down by close
to 2%. You take that screen and
typically you can predict what's
happening in the bond market. Not this
time. In fixed income at the moment,
twos, tens, 30s, yields creeping higher
at the front end of the curve again up
by two basis points. Tens still around
460 and 30s [music]
north of 5%. Your 30-year yield up by
basis point or two. More on the bond
market a little bit later in the
program. That's across asset price
action. Let's get you some single names,
some morning movers. Voni Quinn has
more. Hey Voni. Hey John, well let's
start with a little read into the
consumer and particularly an interest
rate sensitive area, right? So Home
Depot out with earnings. It's actually
higher now, but it did miss estimates in
terms of comp store sales. They were up
0.6% as opposed to analyst estimates for
0.9% of a gain. Consumers just not
buying those big houses or engaging in
those massive projects in their houses,
right? But they are doing a little
gardening and so things weren't all that
bad.
As I said, Home Depot holding onto its
guidance for the full year and basically
margin guidance as well is what it had
said earlier and that does miss
estimates. We'll see what executives say
on the conference call as scheduled for
9:00 a.m. Eastern.
Let's move on because we have another AI
deal today and in this sense it is an AI
infrastructure deal. So BlackRock
through its funds investing $5 billion
with Google in order to gain access to
Google TPUs through an infrastructure
project. It will be competition really
for Coreweave. So Coreweave selling off
just a little bit today although
Coreweave had has has had a lovely run
up. But positive for both of these
players. Blackstone expects to see 500
megawatts coming online by next year.
It's a massive amount of energy. And
then let's take a look at the memory
chip makers because of course we saw the
Seagate CEO's comments yesterday cause a
little bit of a sell-off for that stock.
It's down almost 7%. He [music]
basically said, "Look, we're not going
to be you know, building massive
factories. It's probably not going to be
worth it. It's going to take too long.
It's going to be you know, 5 years
before they're online and at that point
who knows what memory chips will cost,
causing another little bit of a sell-off
today. But, I mean, in relation to the
run-up in these prices, I mean, if you
look at just SanDisk alone and Seagate,
they've been up multiple hundreds of
percent. Micron up 600% [music]
3 and 1/2 thousand percent gain
practically for SanDisk over the last
year. So, I think they can sell off a
couple of percentage points. It won't
break the bank, John. Yvonne, thank
[music] you. Appreciate it. Massive
run-up for those names. A bit of
negative follow-through so far this
morning. On a radar this morning,
President Donald Trump calling off a
planned strike on Iran after speaking
with Gulf allies. Trump announcing a
pause for quote two or three days,
saying the countries are very close to
reaching a deal.
If we can do that where there's no
nuclear weapon going into the hands of
Iran, I think, and if they're satisfied,
we will be probably satisfied also. So,
Iran yet to confirm the latest round of
discussions. Elsewhere, Standard
Chartered set to cut its support staff
by more than 15% as it builds up its use
of AI. The CEO, Bill Winters, saying the
bank is replacing quote lower-value
human capital with technology.
It's not about cost-cutting.
It's although that will be the result
for sure.
It's about having a structurally more
productive environment that is
fit for a future given the financial
markets and the and the the financial
infrastructure world that we're going
into. The job cuts would take shape by
the year 2030. And finally, the Nvidia
CEO, Jensen Huang, saying he expects
China to open up its markets to imports
of American AI chips. The CEO speaking
with Bloomberg's at Ludlow following his
visit to Beijing with President Trump.
My sense is that the demand in China is
so incredible, just like it is here. A
gigantic AI is also making enormous
progress there. My sense is that over
time,
the market will open. China, notably,
yet to sign off on accepting Nvidia's
H200 chips following the US
green-lighting access for some firms
there. They green lit it the United
States in January, then once again in
March Nvidia said that they did get some
orders, but then those customers went to
Nvidia and said actually we're not
allowed to go through with the
purchasing orders. So now we wait and
see if the summit produced potentially
China and the CCP telling these firms
they can buy it. For Jensen Huang he's
definitely hopeful because Nvidia said
that it's a 50 billion opportunity when
it comes to China. The real question I
have is China worried about national
security risks within their own market.
Do they want to make sure that they
could almost ring fence their own AI?
Or do they feel like they don't even
need the US chips anymore? And if that's
the case, how much leverage has the
United States lost at the negotiating
table?
>> Nvidia a difficult couple of days down
slightly again so far this morning.
Let's talk about technology JP Morgan
holding its annual TMC conference over
in Boston. Bramo's there at the event
with a special guest. Good morning Lisa.
Good morning John. Thanks so much. I am
here in Boston at the TMC conference
held by JP Morgan with the global chair
of investment banking and mergers and
acquisitions Kevin Brunner. Thank you so
much for being here with us today.
Thanks Lisa. Really appreciate it. Thank
you for being here by the This is such
an interesting moment because it seems
like the AI cycle is driving everything
right now. You've been working on tech
M&A for 25 years. How is this moment
different than previous ones? It's it's
completely different. It's impacting
every client that we have. There's not a
client that we talk to that's not
actually thinking through where they are
in the landscape, what's their long
strategic narrative, and how they're
going to adapt to a changing
environment. What's driving most of the
tie-ups right now? Is it the idea of
trying to get economies of scale? Is it
to shore up cash to invest more
efficiently? Or is it just sort of a
quest for survival?
You know, I actually think the M&A
market could be defined by selectivity,
scale, really creativity these days.
And so we're obviously seeing strategic
acquirers be highly selective in where
they're putting their capital use. The
deals they're doing are actually done
with high conviction. And they're
actually changing the long-term
narrative for a lot of these companies,
and that's probably the number one
focus. At the same time, scale's very
important. So, cash flow to be able to
reinvest in the business
is very important. We've seen the equity
markets really embrace what I would say
is scale overall. And frankly, when
you're going through business
transformation at the same time, scale's
been very important to be able to fund
that. And then creativity's been the
most interesting part. We've seen deals
of all type, minority investments, we're
seeing collaboration,
we're seeing consortiums do deals
together, we're seeing partnerships, a
lot of structure, and that creativity I
think is something that's really very
interesting to me as we look forward.
What are some of the barriers to these
tie-ups? I mean, and how high is the
threshold? We've been talking all about
how bond yields have been surging to the
highest levels going back to 2007, at
least in the 30-year in the US.
Globally, you're seeing long-term yields
rise. At what point does that stymie
some of the the activity in deals that
we've seen so far?
You know, I think capital has not been
um putting a a barrier on M&A
whatsoever. Obviously, we have a
constructive regulatory environment. And
at the end of the day, I think while
we're trying to balance all the
geopolitical and all the macro issues
that are out there, at the same time,
it's so imperative that many of these
companies change their long-term
strategic narrative
that we're seeing people push forward,
do deals of size, and making sure
they're actually repositioning
themselves on the chessboard for the
path path forward. We've seen a lot of
mega deals so far this year. That has
been the driver at least in the overall
volumes. Is that the same in technology?
Does it have a different flavor? Yeah,
it's great great question because
technology a little bit is a tale of two
two cities.
AI is actually a catalyst within
technology, and it's also a disruptor.
So, we're actually seeing those
companies with AI tailwinds be very
acquisitive, adding capabilities, adding
different tools to their to their
system,
and making sure that they're continuing
to reposition themselves to be the
leaders that they are today.
On the other side of the technology
market, we've we've obviously seen a
little bit of a pause. We've seen people
assess their own business models. Where
are they in this evolution? But I
actually think that uncertainty as we go
forward is going to actually turn into
differentiation in the marketplace. And
that differentiation is going to lead to
continued consolidation, more
traditional M&A activity, I think in the
second half. And we're really enthused
about that. Can you put some specifics
around this in terms of what we're
actually talking about? I mean, the uh
hyperscalers versus the software guys
that are all fighting for survival, that
are all going to try to band together or
else die.
>> Well, let me let me tell you where we
think we'll see uh differentiation on
the software side, right? So, we're
going to see obviously companies of
scale. We'll see mission-critical
platforms come through the other side.
We'll see systems of action, right? Um
obviously, I think there's a lot of
discussion around SaaS moving to to an
outcome-based platform.
Um we'll also see what will be companies
with data modes come out the other side.
And that differentiation, obviously we
went through one earning season, we're
going to go through another one here in
a couple months.
And I think we're going to lead to those
that are actually have reassessed their
models, they put the mode around their
business, and I think those are some of
the characteristics we'll see. Would you
say in the next year this is going to be
a big shakeout period where some of
these models get put to the test in a
way that they haven't so far? Which are
the ones that actually can be deployed
in an effective way, and those that
can't, and that ultimately go away? A
100%. I think we're going to continue to
see, and maybe see even a little bit
more than we have today, the capital
kind of focus into the to the winners.
And this is more on the hyperscalers,
large providers, really building out the
infrastructure.
On the other side of the market, it's
we're going to see consolidation, right?
As we hit that point of differentiation,
we're going to see the winners. The
winners are going to be acquisitive. The
winners are going to add to their
portfolio. They're going to apply the
same techniques that they actually
applied to their own business and we'll
start to see them build their scale
along the way to have all the benefits
that we were talking about previously.
>> How much pushback are you starting to
see from investors? Whether it's the
private capital or whether it's public
markets in terms of financing some of
these transactions given how much risk
is coming in and given the competing the
competition for capital elsewhere. Yeah,
investors have actually been very
resilient. Um investors are obviously on
the top of the market right where
there's a lot of growth and there's a
lot of AI tailwinds. Everyone wants to
participate. We've obviously seen a
pause on the other side of the market
where the transformation's taking place
in the the business models.
But as that differentiation starts to
happen, we're going to see investors be
very focused. I mean I expect take
private equity for example. I expect Let
me back up. Private equity actually has
been very focused on being patient,
assessing their own business models.
They're part of the creativity I talked
about. But as we move through to the
second half and we see that
differentiation, I think we're going to
see capital for take private. I think
we're going to see capital for
consolidation.
I think that'll come from both sides of
strategic and financials. Do you think
that we're going to see also a lot of
failures among some of the private
equity firms that have had companies
that have not gone public for a very
long time because they couldn't
reconcile the valuation that they were
booking versus the valuation they can
get in the markets and they have to kind
of do something with that in order to
free up cash to be able to go out there
and do something? Well, a num- a number
of the private equity veterans are are
obviously very AI savvy.
Very focused [snorts] on the transition.
We're actually reading now, you know,
about some of the new announcements,
partnerships, collaborations that are
taking place. And I think we're clearly
going to see some some winners, but with
all success, there's obviously some
that'll be on the other side of it. This
is one of these annoying questions that
help benchmark where we are. Where are
we in this process? I hate using the
innings kind of analogy, but I'm going
to use the innings analogy. Where are we
in this process of build out
with respect to AI?
>> still early, but as I look at the
conversations taking place here at the
conference,
we've really moved from, you know, it
just being AI agentic infrastructure
build out to actual execution and
scaling as part of the plan.
Every company here is very focused on
what's their long-term strategic
narrative
and are in the early stages of doing so,
but we've actually gone from hype to
real execution and scaling.
This to me is a fantastic moment to be
speaking to all of you. Kevin Bradner,
thank you so much for being with us.
Kevin Bradner there, the [snorts] chair
of investment banking and mergers and
acquisitions. John, I'll set it back to
you. Lisa, thank you. Great work.
Looking forward to Lisa's coverage
throughout this morning from Boston.
From New York City this morning, let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg Brief. Bonnie Quinn
has more. Hey, Bonnie. Hey, John. Thank
you.
>> [music]
>> Three people were killed in a shooting
outside an Islamic center outside San
Diego. Authorities say two teenage
suspects were also found in a car
[music] with apparent self-inflicted
gunshot wounds. San Diego's mayor saying
there'll be extra police protection at
[music] local mosques.
EU officials meeting today to try and
finalize legislation for a trade deal
with the United States. [music]
They must reach an agreement by July 4th
to avoid triggering higher tariffs
threatened by President Trump who
previously threatened to raise those
levies on European auto imports because
the EU hadn't moved quickly enough to
implement the deal.
Fund managers boosting their stock
allocations by the most on record. The
May Bank of America Fund Manager Survey
shows managers are the most overweight
equity since January of 2022 and they've
made big cuts to their cash [music]
levels. The survey identifying inflation
as the biggest tail risk. That is your
Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> [music]
>> Hey, Bonnie, thanks for the update. More
from Bonnie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, AI meets the
physical world.
If we're getting to a point where we
don't have enough supply, what that
means is there's more duration to the
good news. We can't be in a bubble if we
don't have enough capacity to supply all
the demand right now. Up next, we'll
catch up with Jeff Currie of Abax
Markets from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
I think losses resume with down by 0.5%
on the S&P on the Nasdaq 100 this
morning pulling back [music] by some
0.8. On the Russell, small caps negative
by 0.7. Under Savannah's this morning,
AI meets the physical world.
Memory is one of the main areas of
constraint right now because there's not
enough physical clean room space to put
the tools in place to build all the
memory we need for AI. Months ago, the
the big concern was
uh that we wouldn't have enough demand.
Now, if we're if we're getting to a
point where we don't have enough supply,
what that means is there's more duration
to the good news. We can't be in a
bubble if we don't have enough capacity
to supply all the demand right now. So,
here's the latest this morning. The
Seagate CEO, Dave Mosley, issuing a
warning for the AI build-out. Mosley
telling a JP Morgan conference that
building new factories would take too
long. The comments winked on memory and
hardware makers after plunging in
Monday's session. Jeff Currie of Abax
Markets writing, "Capital has chased the
AI trade while ignoring the physical
assets it requires to run. Assets that
have quietly become the best performing
asset class of the decade." Jeff joins
us now for more. Jeff, welcome to the
program. I've been excited to catch up
with you, sir. If we really take a giant
step back and think about the mining
bust post-China boom, we need to think
about the shale bust of a decade ago and
why that set the stage for this period
of what you call capex starvation. Just
where are we and why?
Well, when you look at history going
back the entire post-war era, there's
two sectors that lead the equity market.
One is energy, the other's tech. If you
can't turn on the lights, nothing
happens. If you can't innovate, you
never progress. And that's what you see.
So, we go back. Tech was a leadership in
the '90s all the way up to 2002. Then we
transitioned into energy 2002 to 2014.
14 to now has been technology. And the
way you think about it is in those
periods when energy lead and commodities
lead, you build over capacity. That
lowers the overall price. Inflation gets
low and stable. Interest rates drop. And
investors chase duration, which is
growth stories, tech, and the rest of
it. But eventually you run out of out of
energy, run out of commodity capacity.
And that's where we are today. With this
geopolitical event, it just pulled
forward. Now, you know, Jonathan, we've
been on here talking about the revenge
of the old economy over and over and
over. Um this rotation out of tech into
hard assets, that was already underway
before this happened. What this did is
just accelerated. As you know, Jeff,
discipline is really hard under some of
these C-suites. What will it actually
take to break out of this CAPEX
starvation phase that we're currently
in? And do you see us breaking out of it
anytime soon?
Higher prices, higher returns. Um and
but the the ultimately you ask what
creates that huge upward trend in prices
that you saw in the '70s and you saw in
the 2000s. It's once investors take
capital out of tech, dump it into
commodities, they begin to spend, and
then you get cost inflation. The PPI
that came out last week at 5.1% is
telling you you're already seeing signs
of it combined with the huge supply
shock that you're seeing in the Middle
East. So, in you know, the terms of
thinking about you know, where we are on
that, we are just in the I would say the
bottom of the first inning of the super
cycle despite the fact commodities are
the best performing asset class this
decade. So, you're already 6 years into
it in terms of pricing and when we think
about the forward, you probably got
another decade to 12 years left just
looking at history. Jeff, this is
important. Let's just compare what's
happening with tech then. So, I imagine
you think as capital intensity picks up,
CapEx intensity picks up with the tech
players we get a rewriting and then you
get the rotation into the more energy
sensitive parts of the market, the
mining sector, the energy sector. We're
not seeing that equal and opposite move
though. In fact, Jeff, those particular
parts of the market have lagged so far.
That's interesting to me that the energy
names haven't done much at the moment.
What gives?
I I think there right now there is no
concern about the supply of energy and
commodities.
Um even with the largest supply shock
the world has ever seen. Two acts what
we saw in in the 1970s and I think
there's three reasons why they're not
concerned. One, we're in the middle of
the shoulder months. This is the weakest
demand that goes down and then back up.
We're in that weakest demand part um of
the entire year right now. So, there's
no stress on the system. Um the second
reason is right now we're in a deficit
meaning that demand's up here, supply's
down here. We're drawing inventories.
Once you exhaust inventories, boom, you
have to push demand down in line with
supply. That's when the shortage hits.
That's when the pain hits and that's
when prices go non-linear. The third
point I want to talk about is that every
policy maker
um you know, macro forecaster, central
banker, um you know, tech promoter is
telling you right now there is no
problem. Every commodity CEO, commodity
trader, anybody who gets their hands
dirty is telling you you have a problem.
You have seen this movie before back in
2020, 2021. When remember, inflation is
transitory and then you know, a few
months later boom you hit the wall and
you know we went to double-digit
inflation
and I think you're seeing the same
dynamic here. You know I think you know
one last point though Carter in 1977
made a fatal mistake. It was the sweater
speech. It was February 1977 he's
wearing a sweater kind of like this went
out she was burr and told everybody turn
your thermostats down and then prices of
commodities explode and I think every
policy maker has learned from that you
know you don't want to create fear. My
job is you know if I was advising the
president telling him to do the exact
same thing keep everybody calm but my
job is telling you how to make money and
this point right now this is really
serious. Yeah Trump definitely doesn't
want to come out especially with the 95
degree weather saying don't put your air
conditioners on but Jeff you say that at
this moment supply is ever been more
constrained yet Brent can barely hold on
to 110.
I I get it you you have that seasonal
weakness right now you're not in a
shortage but another really important
point here is because nobody is buying
the energy companies in the back end of
that forward curve is anchored to the
cost of capital of those companies it is
too low and you know I call this the
biggest asymmetric trade in modern
finance in historical terms. Why? When
you look at the free cash flow yield of
the oil companies they're 15.5%
the hyper scalers are zero. Let me say
that again 15.5%
you know free cash flow yield for the
oil companies 0% for the hyper scalers.
We call those oil companies the
munificent seven. What does munificent
mean giving you lavish gifts
and at 15.5% free cash flow yield I'd
call that a lavish gift.
>> And just when it comes to supply and
demand you mentioned this it's It's to
get rough when inventories are drawn
down. When will we hit tank bottoms in
your analysis?
Oh, and and it depends on where you are
in the world and what products. Um some
products you're you're already there
like motor oil in the US. And by the
way, motor oil in the US is critical
because you couldn't even turn on your
car without motor oil um even if you had
gasoline. Um items like sulfuric acid,
you're out. What does that cause? That's
why copper hit an all-time high um last
week cuz you need the sulfuric acid to
produce copper. But when we think about
diesel, jet fuel, gasoline, um those we
have parts of the world jet fuel you're
there. We would expect to see here in
Europe diesel and jet fuel run into very
serious problems by the end of this
month. The United States gasoline by
July. Um and at that point is when you
start to get to that non-linear part and
see prices go higher. Um but I want to
emphasize when we look at the spread
between spot prices in the back end, the
spread has never been higher. And
everybody goes, "Oh, we had you know,
prices were at 122 in the Russian
invasion." By the way, the back end of
the curve was $10 lower. And then
everybody goes, "You know, we saw 147 in
2008." By the way, the back end was like
140. So, 147, 140. What is mispriced
here right now is the back end of the
oil sitting somewhere around 70 75. Um
this is a long-term problem. The cost
structure is going to go up. There is no
spare capacity left. It's going to take
a long time to reestablish it. We need
to reprice that market. That's going to
reprice the the munificent seven. That's
why I tend to think the trade here, you
know, just looking at pure economics has
the most upside to actually own these
oil companies. Jeff Currie, final up.
Jeff, when you're next in town, you need
to co-host the program with us. Yes.
Looking forward to that. Jeff Currie
there of Amerex Commodity Exchange over
in London. Maybe bring Michael O'Leary
into the program as well from Ryanair.
>> Perfect lineup.
>> And I also think they have different
views on jet fuel at the moment when it
comes to [music] Europe. So, I would
actually love to see them around the
table together. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Steve Auth of
Federated, Henrietta Treyz of Veda
Partners, Drew Reddig of Bloomberg
Intelligence, and Michelle
of the Mastercard Economics Institute.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is just around the corner.
The major macro indicators are actually
pretty strong.
>> Begrudgingly, the consumer has held on
to their spending trends.
>> The US consumer is in a better position
than most of the world.
>> The bond market is definitely the
narrative is driven by inflation [music]
right now.
>> I don't think that these interest rate
levels are helpful if anything.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, [music]
and Anne-Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning front
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your price action looks like this.
Two-day [music] slide on the S&P 500
negative this morning on the S&P by
another third of 1%. In the bond market,
yields elevated [music] through the
curve. Two's around 4%, 10's around
4.60, 30 still north of 5% on a 30-year
yield in America, a number we haven't
seen for quite a while. You've got to go
back to 2007 for yields that elevated at
the very long end of the yield curve
stateside. The problem's in the bond
market, not just a problem for the US, a
problem for the UK, for Germany, [music]
for Japan as well. Japan, the one to
watch through the week so far. In the
commodity market, check out crude this
morning. Brent [music] and WTI. Brent
crude is a little bit lower. WTI as
well, but that's not unlocking gains in
this equity market. That market, that
asset class whipsawed [music]
by a bit of verbal intervention of the
last 24 hours. Once again, how many
times have we been here from verbal
intervention from this White House? The
president coming out and saying that
[music] due to at the request of Arab
partners and allies that he's going to
hold off on our planned military attack
on the Islamic Republic of Iran which
was scheduled for tomorrow. What I find
so interesting is no one knew about this
scheduled attack but the president
decided to tell us he's holding off on
attack that no one was expecting. For
the oil market though, this obviously
everyone is clinging to the fact that
this [music] White House wants to wrap
up this conflict. On top of that,
they're also extending in Russian
sanctions waiver to allow more Russian
crude to stay on the market.
>> And there's an important why to that.
You have to keep massaging the story,
find little pools of crude and energy
here, there, and everywhere. Unlock them
while you can just to make sure that
this [music] crude price, this move
doesn't get away from you. We heard from
Jeff Currie, legend of the commodity
market about 10 minutes ago talking
about how much time we have left before
this becomes an even bigger problem. It
hasn't become an even bigger problem
because [music] we've been drawing down
inventories aggressively, not just
stateside but worldwide over the last 2
months.
>> living on inventories right now. We hit
tank bottoms on these inventories. That
is when the commodity complex is going
to get incredibly challenging and we can
see parabolic moves. We could see, we
don't see them yet. [music] What is What
is important to keep in mind is that
depending on where we get into the
inventory levels, how low we get depends
on where you live. And that's what Jeff
Currie said, that's what we heard from
Michael O'Leary yesterday. It's going to
be much [music] harder in Asia as it has
been and then it's going to ripple
through to Europe and then potentially
pockets of the United States.
>> Stocks so far this morning slightly
softer, not a major move. Think about
the run-up. The run-up's been absolutely
massive.
>> [music]
>> The losses have been muted, very mild
yesterday adding to the losses on
Friday. 2-day losing streak could become
day three, down about a third [music] of
1% on the S&P 500. My port in the storm,
my bullish port for a long, long time
has been Steve Orth of Federated. And
Steve has this to say, stocks can pass
through and or manage inflation
especially when productivity is booming
[music] due to AI. We're raising our
forward earnings and market targets
despite persistent inflation worries.
I'm pleased to say that Steve joins
around the table. Steve, good morning.
Morning, John.
>> guy I turn to and have done for the last
decade or so to kind of get me out of
this bearish mess or this hole I've dug
myself into. Why can you still be
optimistic in a moment like this one?
Well, you know, I was thinking of this
as Anne Marie was talking about hitting
hitting bottoms on on tankers and
things. I you know, we have an
expression at Federated Hermes, if it
can't happen, it won't happen.
And sometimes you can outsmart yourself,
you know, you're looking at everything
and saying, you know, this looks really
bad, but we're not the only ones who see
that. And so, I have to assume that
some combination of Donald Trump
presidency, the whole crowd, this is not
good for anybody. And so, I don't think
we are going to run out of oil. I think
they'll figure out a way to solve this
one way or the other. As you say that,
I'm reminded of what happened yesterday.
This Iranian report that part of the
negotiations, this is what the Iranians
were saying, the United States was
willing to give waivers to Iranian
crude. The situation gets so bad,
they're just going to let crude go
freely from their enemy that they're in
a conflict with?
>> Well, I think that they've do whatever
they have to do to have this not be an
issue. And in the meantime, the the
other thing that I think people are sort
of missing here is
bond yields are up because inflation's
up.
But bonds are the asset class with the
problem, not stocks.
Stocks have always been an inflation
hedge. It really doesn't matter what
inflation is doing. If you look at the
data and sort it, as long as growth in
earnings is strong, stocks go up,
whether it's driven by inflation or
driven by real growth. It doesn't really
matter because stocks eat nominal
earnings.
And look what just happened, you know,
in the last earning season. Eight of 10
sectors had double-digit earnings
growth. People talk about a narrow
recovery.
And it's one of these fallacies where
people look at percentage moves off of
lows.
Absolutely off the lows, the AI stocks
have driven the rally. However,
year-to-date, I was kind of laughing
during your last telecast. You're
talking about how it's AI-led, and in
the background, they're showing the
returns on Exxon, up 33% year-to-date.
Year-to-date, value stocks, small-cap
stocks, emerging market stocks have all
performed double-digit
ahead of the Mag 7, which is up 8%.
So, this is not simply an AI-driven
rally. It's a broad rally. AI itself is
spreading out. The AI theme keeps
spreading from one thing to the next.
It's all over the economy. This is one
of the biggest technological changes in
the history of man.
And um the trajectory of earnings right
now, based on what we're seeing and what
has been coming out of the street as
street estimates keep rising every day
we go through earning season.
We found that our number, we had a
number We used use a three-year out
earnings number to project a two-year
forward market return, which at the time
we were at 82 8200.
The The number keeps going up. We had a
$400 earnings estimate for 2028. We were
way ahead of the street 6 months ago.
You know, I woke up Monday morning, and
we're behind the street. How could that
be?
>> [laughter]
>> Street's now at at 425. So, we're at
450. If you look at the numbers, that's
what's happening. Stocks
are passing through, and productivity
gains are helping them, you know, pass
through, and their margins are going up,
not going down.
>> is the struggle people have, and I had
this conversation with Alex Almen over
at Barclays, that we seem to be putting
more emphasis on
how we've got here, and not enough on
where we are. And a A example of that is
say, look at the charts versus look at
the numbers. If you look at the charts
and look at the parabolic move,
particularly in chips coming off the
March low, you can see why technical
strategist becomes a little bit unnerved
about how detached we've come from the
>> Absolutely. daily moving averages.
>> Yeah.
But if you look at the actual numbers,
there's a source of comfort there. Do
you have that struggle speaking to
investors at the moment? They struggle
to detach one from the other and just
focus in isolation, look at where we are
and where we are is okay. Right. I try
to focus our clients on where we're
going. And and that I think helps calm
everybody down. For sure, as a technical
strategist, and all the ones we work
with are all telling us, you know, we're
we're overdue for a pullback after a
sharp run-up. Absolutely.
Absolutely. And one reason we'll put out
a bullish note like we we're about to do
here, um you mentioned our our new
target on the S&P
uh 9,000
is we're almost anticipating a
correction and we want to get ready get
our people ready for that and actually
the situation situation in our mind is
actually getting better, not worse.
Technically, we're certainly
overextended.
Could be a pullback. But it it's never
as deep as you think it's going to be.
>> You've alluded to the challenge though.
You need to think about pricing this
market for the economy we'll have 12
months, 18 months out. Further down the
line. Yeah. Not the one we've got.
That's another struggle for a lot of
investors. They look at the economy
we've got. They look at the energy price
move. They hear Anne Marie and the
prospect of things getting a little bit
messy later this summer and they
struggle
>> Much to the less lease is not here.
>> There you go. Could have been even
worse. They struggle to think about
where the economy will be 12 to 18
months on a rolling basis. Just walk us
through your discipline with regards to
that.
Yeah, well, we we just look at the
underlying what's going on in the
economy and in the companies cuz we're
talking our analysts, we have 170 PMs
and analysts in the equity group at
Federated Hermes. So, we're talking to
companies every day all over the world
and what they're telling us is that the
situation looks pretty good. They're all
seeing their sales are expanding, their
earning their margins are going up and
their earnings are going up.
And it looks to us as AI gets more and
more adopted into the economy, that
margin expansion trend is going to
continue. This is one of the things that
has made us more bullish than the
average bear or the average market
investor. Most people keep talking about
peak margins. We've heard about peak
margins for a decade.
And yes, that has always been true.
Every time someone has said that we are
at peak margins. And guess what? The
margins keep going higher because the
mix of companies in the economy isn't
getting increasingly mixed towards
higher margin businesses. And even the
older companies are improving their
margins partly because they're using AI.
Do you think the story can continue in
the way you're describing it if the
Federal Reserve has to hike interest
rates?
Yeah, I I I think Well, I don't think
the Fed is going to hike interest rates.
That's a loaded question.
Uh but even if they did, yeah, the
market would probably have a quick
pullback. But I said earlier, I think
bonds have a problem, not stocks. Stocks
are growing their earnings at
double-digit rates. Bonds can't grow
their revenue stream unless there's a
rate hike. In fact, they they need to
get bond yields higher to compete with
stocks. That's been the problem.
>> about the E. If we've got a problem with
the bond market, will we have a problem
with the P in the equity market? The
price that people are willing to pay for
those earnings. If you all start to
continue backing up like this.
>> enough. The discount rate could go up
marginally. But look what's happened
with the earnings growth rate over the
last 3 years. It's It's way above the
increase in the discount rate.
So, I I think I think you can get overly
focused on that. It will certainly cause
a near-term correction. If the Fed turns
around and hikes, which I doubt that
they would do. If you think about it,
Amory,
the the It's like a bifurcated economy
here, right? The low end right now is
being protected by the one big beautiful
bill. That's offsetting the gasoline
price hike
by 6 to 8 months. The high end's being
protected by the wealth effect. So,
that's why the economy is going along.
Um the Fed, if it if it doesn't if it um
raises rates, what that is going to hurt
is the interest rate sensitive part of
the economy, which is not as big a hunk
of the economy as it used to be. And
it's the part of the economy that
currently right now is sort of in a
recession. Look at Home Depot's numbers
this morning. So, the housing market is
the thing that's struggling. That
employs a lot of people. That's the area
that needs lower rates. And Walsh
understands that. So, I think it's
really unlikely that he's going to hike.
What he's going to do is further hurt
the part of the economy the one part
that's not growing fast. And it's not
going to have anything to do with AI.
The investment there is being driven
largely by cash flow, not by borrowing.
So,
it's not going to have any impact on the
AI boom. Just to remind us just to wrap
it up, new price targets, what are they?
We've gone to 9,000
uh for the end of '27, and we're at I
want to say 8,000 for the end of '26.
Buddy Banish now, Steve's going to see
you. Yeah, likewise. Appreciate it,
buddy. Thank you. Steve Bull from
Federated Hermes. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief. Bonnie Quinn
has more. Hey, Bonnie.
Hey, John. Thank you. We're getting new
details about President Donald Trump's
meeting with China's Xi Jinping last
week. Financial Times reporting Xi told
Trump that Russian President Vladimir
Putin may end up regretting invading
Ukraine. Putin is in [music] Beijing and
scheduled to meet with Xi tomorrow.
A legal setback for Elon Musk. A
California jury tossing out his lawsuit
against OpenAI and its CEO saying Musk
should have sued sooner. Jury didn't
rule on his core allegation that OpenAI
abandoned its responsibilities by
pivoting to maximize commercial profits.
Musk says he'll appeal.
The LIRR strike coming to an end after
4-days. Railroad workers agreeing to a
potential agreement to get the country's
largest commuter line back up and
running. The [music] union still need to
ratify the accord which delivers raises
for workers while protecting riders and
taxpayers. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Some good news going into the long
weekend. Vauhini, thank you for that.
More from Vauhini later this hour. Up
next on the program, delaying strikes
against Iran.
Well, other countries have come to me
and they've said we were getting ready
to do a very major attack tomorrow. I
put it off for a little while, hopefully
maybe forever. Up next we'll catch up
with Henrietta Treyz of Treyz Partners
live from New York City this morning.
>> [music]
>> Good morning.
>> A summer tease from New York City
getting into the 90s a little bit later
for the Brits out there, for the
Europeans. That's 34, 34 Celsius. Into
the 90s. It's [music] unbelievable.
Sneak peek of the summer. The Brits
don't experience this ever. So,
>> [laughter]
>> come to New York. What's sad though is
that it's not carrying through the
weekend, which is a long weekend [music]
for Memorial Day. So, Temperature going
to come down pretty aggressively over
the coming few days into the long
weekend. That's the situation with the
weather. This is the week ahead for the
economic data and the earnings. Later on
this week, the main event of course is
Nvidia after the close on Wednesday.
You'll also get Target that morning.
Look out for that. Walmart on Thursday.
This is a new one on the calendar, the
swearing in of Kevin Wash as Fed [music]
Chair. That's coming on Friday from the
White House I believe.
>> From the White House. The last time a
new Fed Chair was sworn in at the White
House was Alan Greenspan in 1987.
Normally they're sworn in at the Federal
Reserve building and then there's some
sort of celebration announcement at the
White House, but Trump's going full hog
on this one. It's the It's the party and
the swearing in. Um the first time since
[music] Greenspan People going to
complain about the optics of that. Kevin
Warsh at the White House alongside the
president.
>> was in the last cabinet meeting where
the president said because of all the
renovations that's happening when it
comes to the [music] Federal Reserve,
maybe we're going to find a desk for
Kevin Warsh here at the White House. I
immediately looked at Susie Walsh to see
if her face was just kind of like, "Oh
my god, no." The building they're in
right now, Federal Reserve, is a
beautiful building already. Could have
used that, but anyway. Futures right now
on the S&P 500. Yeah, we'll move on.
We're down by about 0.4% [music] on the
S&P 500 this morning. Crude pulling back
just a little bit. Let's focus on that.
Under Savannah's this morning, delaying
strikes against Iran.
Well, other countries have come to me
and they've said we were getting ready
to do a very major attack tomorrow.
They've put it off for a little while,
hopefully maybe forever, but possibly
for a little while.
Because we've had
very big discussions with Iran, and
we'll see what they amount to. I was
asked by Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, some
others if we could put it off for
two or three days, a short period of
time, because they think that they are
getting very close to making a deal.
Here's the latest this morning,
President Donald Trump calling off
attacks against Iran in an effort to
give Gulf allies more time to push for
diplomacy. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now from Washington for more.
Hey, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump maintains that the risk of
escalation is still very much on the
table as he went on in that post on
Truth Social to say that he has told his
national security team to be ready at
quote a moment's notice for large-scale
strikes. So, at this point, the White
House has not detailed any of these
plans as President Trump has long
threatened additional military action
while on the other hand has maintained
that a diplomatic solution still remains
viable. But, I will point out that our
analysts at Bloomberg Economics say that
it is increasingly likely that the White
House could revert to short and intense
strikes in a bid to change the status
quo amid reporting that President Trump
has been advised in recent weeks that
limited strikes could help pressure Iran
to reach a deal because the latest is
both sides are rejecting the freshest
counter proposals just yesterday as Iran
underscores that it doesn't want to
discuss curves on its nuclear program
and the US says that the naval blockade
isn't going anywhere. In fact, CENTCOM
confirmed yesterday that it has so far
redirected 85 commercial vessels in its
attempts to secure the strait, which at
this point remains effectively shut and
the administration is looking for ways
to get more oil supply to the global
market moving just yesterday to issue
this temporary waiver to allow for the
sale of some Russian crude barrels
already loaded onto tankers and at sea.
John, in fact, a person familiar with
the matter tells Bloomberg News that
this 30-day general license could very
likely be extended as the war in Iran
drags on within the next month
considering that we saw the last general
license lapse. It's something to watch
here as the administration faces this
increased pressure when it comes to rein
in higher fuel costs.
>> Todd, there was also a report yesterday
from an Iranian semi-official news
outlet saying that part of the
negotiations the United States was even
willing to lift sanctions on Iranian
crude. Is that potentially one of the
tools in the toolbox?
Well, at this point, Amory, we did hear
from a White House official who said
that that report from Iranian state
media was false and that that was not
going to be something on the table. It
was interesting because it did come, of
course, the same day that we saw the US
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent urge G7
allies to ratchet up their sanctions
when it comes to Iran. In terms of any
other sanctions that we could be
watching, as you well know, we were just
in Asia. President Trump telling
reporters on his way back on Air Force
One that maybe he would be looking at
easing some of the sanctions on Chinese
oil refiners who import Iranian crude.
Though at this point we haven't gotten
any further update on that. It is very
clear though that the administration is
looking for some other ways that they
could tamp down when it comes to rising
fuel costs. But so far we haven't really
seen recent moves. I mentioned last hour
on this program that the White House is
looking at asking Congress for this
temporary suspension when it comes to
the federal gas tax. Emery, I will also
quickly mention that yesterday we got
some other reporting from Iranian state
media including that the US's latest
proposal did not include payments when
it comes to war damages. That is also
something that at the moment is being
disputed by the White House.
>> Tal Heinrich with the ISIS in
Washington. Tal, let's stay close. Thank
you. Henrietta provides us rights in the
US and Iran. Could negotiate a narrow
reopening of the straight while the
Saudi attacks issues are sorted out.
Military escalation remains distinctly
possible. Henrietta joins us now for
more. Henrietta, welcome to the program
first and secondly, I want to pick up on
that last line. I think it's really
important. In markets, overwhelmingly
the consensus is this administration is
committed to a diplomatic effort to end
this war and avoiding the resumption of
hostilities. Do the events and that
announcement in the last 24 hours
reinforce that or highlight that maybe
we were closer to a resumption of
hostilities than many people believed?
I think there's actually a lot of
confusion on the street. My inbox is
constantly, you know, what are your odds
of military escalation? I don't think
there's a lot of confidence in one
direction or another about what the
president is going to do here. And
that's because he doesn't have any good
options. The fact that Iran's
neighboring countries are telling the
president per his own words that this is
not the time to escalate militarily is
because they're the ones that are going
to get retaliated against and they don't
want their energy refined their energy
outlets, their energy refiners to be the
ones that are targeted, which President
Trump understands because it'll drive
inflation and gas prices even further. I
thought your last guest was really
interesting and it's it's, you know,
disturbing to hear that this is not a
widespread problem when you're pointing
to earnings from Exxon as a reason for
good news. The Gulf is closed, the
strait is closed, and inflation
continues to seep across the entire
economy into wholesale data, into PPI
data, and the street is the problem. So,
escalating and further incapacitating
energy refiners in the entire region is
only going to exacerbate the problem.
So, the president doesn't have a good
choice here. So, Henry, why do you think
that the strait at some point could be
reopened while they negotiate other
issues? If this is the one piece of
leverage the regime has, don't they want
to hold on to this as long as possible?
Exactly. And so, I think, Henry, the way
I think about it is that this would have
to be the United States allowing for the
movement of freight and ships through
the Ayatollah. It always comes back to
this fifth and final point that Iran
always includes on its ask list, which
is I want to have the ability to control
flow through the strait, which means
collecting a tax. And in my opinion, if
you really think about it, it's pretty
easy, and painful, obviously,
politically, for the president to allow
some transit through the strait, at
least clear the backlog of ships that
are in there, maybe get some of the oil
out that's locked in, um get those, you
know, four silos that have been stuck
there for 80 days out of there, um and
get the flow through, but you'd have to
allow for Iran to continue coordinating,
which, by the way, the insurers want,
and Iran is generating its entire own
insurance policy to get those guys
through. So, in in comparison to a
military escalation, it's theoretically
easier. Diplomatically and tax
policy-wise, it's
Well, Henry, are you saying that the
strait could open with Iranians
collecting a toll or potentially the
United States using the fifth fleet and
just having naval escorts?
Well, the naval escorts are
extraordinarily expensive. They let two
ships through, each one costs $10
million, and that's going to escalate.
And obviously, the president called that
off after 36 hours or something, because
the manpower cost and the risk was
presumably too high. If it was
effective, we'd still be doing it. We're
not. And that's that's the problem with
the military sortie from the United
States side. So, the path of least
resistance, if you're more worried about
military manpower, loss of life, is to
create a formalized route to go through
that goes through the tax policy angle.
It's it's from a human cost less
problematic. Henrietta, appreciate your
take. Thank you. Henrietta Treyse of
Vanda Partners on the options available
to this White House right now. They're
limited, which is why they've committed
to the blockade, because at the moment,
that's the low-risk option for now,
because you've got the inventories. But
as you aggressively draw those
inventories down,
and you start to get hiccups here,
there, and everywhere, that becomes a
higher risk option, and that's where
things get more complicated.
>> It's why you see OFAC extending these
waivers when it comes to Russian oil.
They're willing to allow Russian crude
hit the market, because they don't have
a lot of choices for some of their
partners, especially in Asia and in
Europe. It's [music] going to be a very
challenging environment. Right now, to
Henrietta's point, the Strait of Hormuz
has an X account, so you can message
[music] them and pay them to get your
vessel through.
>> That easy, right? Yeah, with some
Bitcoin.
>> Yep. Okay. All right. Brent crude this
morning around 111, WTI [music] around
108. Equity futures negative. We're down
by about a third of 1%. Up next, we'll
get the latest on Home Depot with Drew
Reading [music] of Bloomberg
Intelligence.
All right, from New York City, welcome
back to the program. Bramo on tour
today. She's up in Boston. She'll be
catching up with everyone over at JP
Morgan at their tech conference coming
up a little bit later. Look out for this
conversation [music] with the Liberty
Media CEO coming up a little bit later
with Derek Chang. That's happening in
the next hour, stacked hour. In about 60
[music] minutes time, we'll also catch
up with the central bank governors of
France and of Germany. So, a read on the
ECB. Ollie Crooke on the ground at the
[music] G7 bringing you the latest from
that a little bit later this morning.
For the week ahead, this is how things
are stacked up. We had Home Depot
earnings a little bit earlier on this
morning, sales falling slightly short.
Stock's not been hammered. That's
interesting. Later in the week we'll
hear from Target. [music] We'll hear
from Walmart. We'll also hear from
Nvidia. That is the big big earnings
report for the week given its massive
[music] contribution to the S&P 500 and
to the Nasdaq. And then later in the
week, we mentioned this earlier in the
program. Kevin Walsh, Fed chair, sworn
in on Friday entering a really really
complex moment for any central bank
anywhere, particularly for this Federal
Reserve. Unclear what his reaction
function is.
>> [music]
>> Want some clarity on that. We do know
the committee is incredibly divided at a
time when inflation has picked up to
multi-year highs driven by this massive
move we've seen in energy over the last
few months. Cameron Dawson is talking
about is this going to be potentially
one of the first Fed chairs that comes
to a meeting and dissents. Remember, he
is state taking Steve Myron's very
dovish spot. So, he might have to, you
know, [music] assert himself in that
way. I do think it is interesting
though. First it was the Treasury
Secretary and then it was the president
this Fortune [music] magazine. Wasn't a
full-blown I'm going to give Kevin as
much space as he needs, but it was a
sense that you might have to wait to see
the figures to after the war is over.
Basically, considering the fact that we
are seeing a higher inflation
environment with higher energy prices,
potentially cannot come in and [music]
cut rates immediately.
>> this note, this quote from Jim McCormick
over at Citi earlier on this morning. I
see markets underpricing the risk of a
Fed rate hike starting this year, not
next year,
but this year. And I think many of us
including [music] myself struggle to
internalize that. I mentioned this
yesterday. We heard from Neel Kashkari.
He dissented against the language in the
statement. And when he talked about why,
he talked [music] about the financial
conditions tightening somewhat, so they
wouldn't have [music] to do more further
down the road. And my translation of
that was ultimately, if you change the
communication of the Fed, if you tighten
tighten financial conditions [music] up
somewhat, you get that done, you won't
actually need to hike further down the
road. So, even the dissenters to the
language on the easing bias in the
statement right now, I don't see them as
inclined to wanting to hike anytime
soon. No, but they want to set [music]
the bar and make sure that inflation
doesn't run away from them. I mean, when
you talk about an individual coming out
and saying [music] potential is going to
be a hike, which some of the banks and
analysts are starting to see this year.
Did you see Steve Auth, how he responded
to when I said, "Can stocks continue
[music] to where you think they're
going?" That story persist if we have a
rate hike. And he says, "Whoa, I don't
even think there's going to be a rate
hike, and that is a loaded [music]
question." The It's so interesting right
now, the debate is so
different and robust. City yesterday,
Veronica Clark is talk [music] still
expecting her and the team three cuts
this year. Why individuals are starting
to price in a potential [music] hike.
Let's start with the bond market then,
twos, tens, 30s, and check out twos
first. Yield's elevated by three basis
[music] points. You'll notice the yield
here is still north of 4%, close to
4.1%. That is quite some way away from
the policy rate of [music] on the Fed
funds. Now, this is important because
the gap has opened up, and this is why
people are talking about the prospect or
the risk of a rate hike in the year to
come. On the 10-year, further out along
the curve, north of 460, we've seen that
over the last couple of days now, up
another two basis points so far this
morning. And on 30s, up about two basis
points 30-year to [music] around 515.
Yields at the long end of the curve at
multi-decade highs. In Japan, at record
highs on certain maturities. In the UK,
>> [music]
>> numbers we haven't seen for almost 20
years. It's It's just a problem in the
United States, although this would be a
problem screen for [music] the Treasury
Secretary. Remember he wanted 3% of the
10-year yield Jonathan when he came in.
That was his That was his hope and
ambition. This [music] is a global
problem and this is something that is
actually going to be dominating the G7
Finance Ministers meeting happening
right now
>> [music]
>> in Paris. We already heard from the
French Finance Minister who said, "This
is a problem. Energy costs going up,
it's inflation. Potentially there's
going to be a little bit of a drag on
growth. This has a stagflationary fear."
That's the bond market move. Equities
this morning down by about a third of 1%
[music] on the S&P 500, slightly lighter
negative across equity markets today on
the S&P, on the Nasdaq, on the Russell.
On the Russell this morning we're down
by 0.5. And just about things out for
you to check out commodities, [music]
Brent and WTI. Brent's down by about 1%
but still holding on to 110, call it
111. On WTI crude, 108, we're down about
a third of 1% on the session so far. On
a rate down this morning, President
Donald Trump delays strikes on Iran.
Well, other countries have come to me
and they've said we were getting ready
to do a very major attack tomorrow. I've
put it off for a little while, hopefully
maybe forever because we've had
very big discussions with Iran
and we'll see what they amount to.
While there has been no immediate
confirmation from Tehran of any talks,
President Trump saying the countries are
very close to reaching a deal.
>> But how many times have we heard that? I
mean I spoke to the president weeks ago
when I called him and he said they're
desperate to make a deal. Right now,
when you get the readouts from the
Iranians and the White House, they are
still so far apart and on their red
lines and neither side is moving
inwards, which is why the president
talks about the fact that he could still
go back to strikes. What I find so
interesting about this truth yesterday
is that no one was planning for a strike
and the president came out and said I'm
not doing one, which is why it feels
like it's verbal intervention. And for
the oil market, it's working. And Kit
Jukes says the market buys taco more
than nacho. Taco, we know Trump always
chickens out. Nacho, not a chance Hermus
opens.
>> out what came out of that meeting in
China. You're in Beijing for it. Trying
to work out the details of what was
agreed with anything with regards to
what's happening in the Middle East. And
of course, the latest on Nvidia. The
CEO, Jensen Huang, saying he expects
China to open up its markets to imports
of American AI chips. The CEO speaking
with Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow following
that visit to Beijing.
My sense is that the demand in China is
so incredible, just like it is here.
Agent of AI is also making enormous
progress there. My sense is that over
time I
the market will open. China, of course,
is yet to sign off on accepting Nvidia's
H200 chips following the US
green-lighting access. And that right
now is the sticking point.
>> I spoke to sources about this. They're
waiting on Beijing. The United States
has allowed the H200s. Remember, this
was a huge U-turn for the Trump
administration when it comes to H200s.
First, they were banned. Then in
January, they gave the green light. Then
in March, there was a lot of talk about
specific Chinese companies that went to
Nvidia and said, "Look, we want to buy
these chips." And then went back and
said, "Ooh, actually we can't purchase
them because the Chinese Communist
Party, the government, told us we're not
allowed to."
After this meeting, does potentially
that open up? And that would be a big
win for Nvidia. The marketing around
this AI story is absolutely dreadful
right now. It's something they all need
to address. I'm sure you've seen some of
the scenes from over the weekend with
some of these commencement speeches at
various colleges around the United
States. And some of the individuals
delivering those speeches getting booed
every time they mentioned AI. Why?
Because of language like this. Standard
Chartered slashing more than 15% of its
workforce leaning into AI. The CEO, Bill
Winters, saying the technology will
replace, wait for it, lower-value human
capital.
It's not about cost-cutting.
It's Although that will be the result
for sure.
It's about having a structurally more
productive environment that is
fit for a future given the financial
markets and the and the the financial
infrastructure world that we're going
into. The job cuts would take shape by
the year 2030. Interestingly, with this
announcement, the stock is lower in
London trading. It went down by 0.8%. I
can't think of a clumsier way to talk
about this. That is not the way to talk
about this and I hope the lesson is
learned in the years to come.
>> Well, as I said in the last hour, maybe
you should have asked AI. So, I asked
Google Gemini, what is a better way to
phrase this? Google Gemini, first word,
oof. That original phrase is a textbook
example of corporate speak gone wrong.
Calling human beings lower value human
capital and comparing them directly to
investment capital sounds incredibly
cold, robotic, and devaluing. Maybe
before the next time a CEO goes out or
they go out and give a commencement
speech or speak to shareholders or their
company and their employees about AI
taking over people's jobs, they should
ask AI how they should deliver that
message.
>> it's fair to say this is why some of
those commencement speakers right now
are getting booed
off somebody's stages. Looking at some
of the data we're getting for the
consumer, big week for retailers. We
heard from Home Depot a little bit
earlier on. The company missing
expectations, pointing to high borrowing
costs and slower consumer spending. Home
Depot's CFO, Richard McPhail, telling us
here at Bloomberg shoppers continue to
defer large projects, telling us they
have a higher degree of uncertainty.
Drew Reading of Bloomberg Intelligence
joins us now for more. Drew, welcome to
the program. It's not as if the bar was
particularly high for these companies.
We knew things were going to be
difficult. How difficult were they in
the last quarter?
Yes, it was a relatively neutral print
for Home Depot. They had a slight miss
on comparable store sales. Um but as you
mentioned, coming into the quarter,
expectations weren't all that high. The
stock's down over 20% since
mid-February. Um I think the more
important thing and what investors will
latch onto is the fact that they
maintained
their guidance for the full year despite
these choppy macro conditions. Now,
their guidance did assume that sales
would be either flat to up 2%, so I
think they did provide themselves with a
little bit of wiggle room to kind of see
how this macro ultimately shakes out.
So, I don't necessarily think we've seen
the impact yet of, you know, the the
recent inflation and heightened consumer
uncertainty. Um so, we do think that
there could be some risk through the
remainder of the year. Drew, that's the
cyclical backdrop. There's also just
this massive structural problem with
interest rates because of what happened
with the pandemic. Within the space of
like 12 months, we had record low
interest rates and then interest rates
at multi-decade highs. So, if you've got
that mortgage at the right time, you've
still got it and you certainly don't
want to cycle out of that into what we
get in the market right now, which is
something closer to say 6%. Drew, do
they have to think about this just being
a longer-term structural problem that
people just aren't going to be moving
until that's addressed and I don't see
any solution for it at the moment.
Yeah, it's certainly one of the the
biggest headwinds to to increased
housing turnover. Somewhere around 70%
of outstanding mortgages are below 5%.
Um and without a whole lot of of labor
market stress, there's not a whole lot
of incentive force or
people being forced to move from their
homes.
Um you know,
housing turnover right now is about 20%
below normal
um normalized levels. We know that
movers tend to sport spend more on home
improvement spending. Um you know, so we
think that the existing home market
continues to bounce along the bottom. We
don't necessarily see it as a headwind
to home improvement retailers at this
point, but the catalyst um just hasn't
come yet. Drew, what's going on with the
tariff refunds? I know Home Depot signed
up for them. Are they going to get some
of this money back?
So, I think they mentioned that they
have signed up for them. They have um
got some of them back already, but I
think the CFO had had mentioned that
it's not going to have a meaningful
impact for them.
How challenging has it been for the
C-suite? They dealt with tariffs last
year. They're dealing with high mortgage
prices, a housing crisis really in this
country, and now potentially consumers
just on edge because of everything going
on with higher inflation and conflicts
around the world.
Yeah, it's really been a
a perfect storm
against the home improvement retail
industry. I think one of the main things
you highlighted and it's what we
continue to hear across the housing
landscape is just the elevated
uncertainty which is causing consumers
to scale back spending on big ticket
projects which was mentioned by Home
Depot. The other thing to keep in mind
with rates where they are, you're
tending to see less spending on those
big ticket projects because they're
typically financed. So you think about
things like large scale kitchen
remodels, bathroom remodels, flooring,
window projects. Those are all things
that really haven't come back and that's
what you need to see in order to get the
next leg of growth.
>> It costs a lot of money, that's for
sure. Drew, it's good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Drew running of Blue Bag
Intelligence, stock slightly lower. Buy
was pretty low for this company. Name
was down by some 13% year-to-date
following last year's losses. That stock
was down something like 10, 11%. Let's
get you an update on news elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Bonnie. Hey,
John. Thank you.
Meta is cutting jobs and reassigning
7,000 workers to new roles related to
AI. According to an internal memo, the
Facebook parent will announce staff cuts
later in the week as part of an effort
to improve efficiency and offset [music]
its investments in AI.
SpaceX could make its trading debut as
early as this week. Elon Musk saying the
IPO is coming pretty soon as it seeks to
raise as much as 75 billion dollars on a
valuation of more than two trillion
dollars. That would make it the largest
IPO in the history of capital markets.
New York City Mayor Eric Adams is set to
hold meetings with JP Morgan CEO Jamie
Dimon and Goldman Sachs CEO David
Solomon. This has [music] well seen New
Yorkers and Wall Street push back on the
mayor's proposals for higher taxes on
the rich.
And that is [music] your Bloomberg
brief, John. Bonnie, thank you. I wish
we'd just say employers. Keep reading
these stories about the billionaire
class. Just employers. [music]
The mayor today is meeting some of the
biggest employers
of people in this city.
>> [music]
>> That's the headline. Yes, JP JP Morgan
alone
>> is shocking. Yes, because this was a
mayor who didn't want to engage with the
biggest [music] employers of this city.
JP Morgan alone has more than 24,000
employees who work in New York City. And
more broadly, according to our
statistics, Wall Street accounted for
basically 20% of New York State's tax
[music] revenue. So, meeting with the
biggest employers and also the biggest
revenue generators when it when you look
at your budget.
>> that's even a story is just ridiculous,
right?
>> It's sad, actually.
>> It's really sad.
>> All these meetings should have been
going on. I think there was maybe one
ahead of the election.
>> they're actually happening, unlike under
De Blasio, where True. these kind of
things didn't happen at all, which was
oh so ridiculous. Um, next on the
program, testing consumer resilience.
Consumers are making difficult choices
based on where prices are, but we
haven't seen the consumer stop spending.
Begrudgingly, the consumer has held on
to their spending trends. Up next, we'll
catch up with Michelle Meyer of
Mastercard from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
There's a weight to this tape this
morning. We're down again by 0.4% on the
[music] S&P. We're down by 3/4 of 1% on
the Nasdaq 100. We're was elevated in
the bond market. Yields on twos, 10s,
[music] and 30s higher this morning by a
few basis points up two on 10s to 461.
Is this a problem? Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley is constructive on this equity
market, but on the bond market he said
this, "We may need to [music] see a more
durable resolution to the conflict in
the Middle East before yields fall. If
bond yields rises [music] with rising
back-end rates, we would expect the
first meaningful correction in equity
prices since markets bottomed [music] at
the end of March." Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley to kick off this week. And the
problem right now is when you have the
president coming out and saying he's
[music] holding off on strikes that no
one knew were planned because of what
the Gulf partners have said to him. Is
that a durable solution? No, we've been
here multiple times. This conflict
continues. We're in paralysis. And that
is why maybe the oil market is looking
[music] at this and taking it as a
signal, but not so much the equity and
bond market.
>> Crude still elevated, slight pullback as
Anne-Marie indicated, but still elevated
around 111 on Brent. WTI around [music]
108. What does it mean for this economy?
Under Savannah's this morning, testing
consumer resilience.
Consumers are making difficult choices
based on where prices are, but there
hasn't been demand destruction. And
you're continuing to see consumers spend
on services. You're seeing things like
durable goods slow down, but we haven't
seen the consumer stop spending.
Begrudgingly, the consumer has held on
to their spending trends. So, here's the
latest this morning. A busy week of
retail earnings continues. Target
tomorrow ahead of Walmart on Thursday.
Michelle Meyer of the Mastercard
Economics Institute writing consumer
spending remains resilient. With some
reallocation, inflation pressures remain
concentrated in energy and in air fares.
Michelle join us now for more. Michelle,
good morning. Good morning.
>> see you. You've seen these kind of
energy shocks before. We've seen them
recently a couple of times. How
different are the spending patterns now
compared to say then?
I mean, so one common theme is of course
consumers are spending more at the pump.
That's a given because energy prices are
higher and that's a necessity. So, we're
seeing spending on fuel and convenience
run up about 20% positive on a
year-over-year basis. Historically, when
energy prices rise and remain elevated,
you do see consumers start to reallocate
their basket of spend. And durable goods
will be more vulnerable, particularly
things like autos that are directly
related to gas prices, but even the
larger appliances that are bigger
purchase, big ticket items. Um and then
sometimes you'll see things like
discretionary services start to slow
down. What's interesting about today is
that you are not seeing the shift in
discretionary services. For example,
restaurant spending is remaining very
steady, very solid. Um and I think that
says a lot about the consumer's desire
to continue to engage. Do you think
we're running on fumes? What's this
backed up by? It's backed up by the
labor market. I don't think it's fumes.
If you see the last few jobs reports,
it's obviously very volatile, but we are
still seeing job creation. The
unemployment rate is at 4.3%.
That's a solid labor market, all things
considered. So, yes, we can debate how
much labor supply there is out there,
what the right break-even rate is for
jobs, but when you look at an
unemployment rate of 4.3% and very low
unemployment insurance or jobless
claims, it's supportive for the
consumer. We're about to have a Memorial
Day weekend. AAA's talking about highest
gasoline prices in 4 years, but still
record numbers are going to hit the
road. Do you see consumers still having
the money and the appetite to go travel?
Yeah, so we just published a a big
report called the travel equation, where
we look through the three big forces
that are driving travel. It's macro,
it's machines, which is AI, and it's
personal motivations, which is always a
big factor that drives people's decision
to travel. And it seems like yes, travel
is still happening. It's a reorientation
of travel, for sure. So, depending on
how much consumers can afford, they may
decide to drive less, drive differently,
go somewhere else, but they're going.
And it's the same thing with air travel.
So, of course, there's the conflict in
the Middle East, there's higher jet fuel
prices, some of that is being passed on
through higher airfare, and consumers
are going to take that into account.
But, they're going to look for places to
go and ways to still find value in
travel. So, this reorientation is
considerable, and it's and we see it.
>> They're traveling, but are you basically
saying the conflict in Iran is dictating
potentially where they're going, their
destination? Well, it it's an important
factor from a safety perspective, from
an availability of flights, from a
connectivity perspective, um and a cost.
So, one of the things that we found very
clearly in our research is the influence
of AI to help consumers find value and
find those places to go. So, we were
able to look at two different cohorts of
consumers, one that utilizes AI
subscriptions, and one that doesn't. And
you see different travel trends based
off of those cohorts.
>> way? What are they doing? What are they
finding out? So, the first thing, those
that use AI subscriptions have a greater
share of wallet towards travel, which is
interesting. It just shows that maybe
it's a younger cohort, more inclined um
to to utilize their purchasing power.
But, you also see these
off-the-beaten-path
type of destinations, particularly
throughout Europe, where it's a very
high share of AI subscribers that are at
the tourist in the the destination. So,
Leipzig, Germany, which is big music
city, a third of tourists from the US
are AI subscribers. Wow. And that's
because they were taken that, or that's
just a correlation? Correlation or
causation? I'm just trying to
understand.
>> That's a very hard is a good question.
It's hard to know if it's correlation.
Are those AI subscribers more likely to
have gone there regardless, or are they
finding those destinations? I think it's
got to be part of the latter. You're
identifying new places to go that have
more value, that are a little bit
unknown. Asking for a friend, where else
in Europe?
Read the report. There's a lot of good
locations.
>> [laughter]
>> I've read the report. FX is a big a big
factor in all of this as well.
>> too, yeah, of Yeah, I've always wanted
in London, I was very sensitive to that.
I'd check different places and maybe
decide based on what the foreign
exchange market was doing. Is that
becoming a bigger thing stateside?
That's very savvy of you. Um but yes, I
think it it matters more for the
emerging markets. Particularly, we see a
lot of that FX um volatility influencing
where people travel in Latin America.
Michelle, it's good to see you. Thank
you. Michelle Meyer of MasterCard.
Consumers are still spending. They're
not running on fumes. It's backed up by
a labor market that has cracks. Let's
put it that way, but still it's pretty
decent.
>> I do think it's interesting that because
of jet fuel costs, because of other
issues, potentially travelers are
looking into peak travel season is going
to be this summer, and maybe they're
changing their destination. I didn't
realize also AI was helping you find
some great deals.
>> that either. This, of course, is the big
test for this Federal Reserve.
Consumer price tolerance. Will they
absorb these price hikes? And if they
do, where does it leave this Federal
Reserve? It's going to be a challenging
one, especially given Kevin Warsh is
going to be sworn in this Friday. An
individual that was looking pretty
dovish coming in, and now potentially
from Scott Bessent and the president
himself, give me a little bit of cover.
Potentially, he's going to have to
remain on hold for longer. These
particular ceremonies can get a little
bit awkward. Do you remember the one
with Yellen and President Obama? Do you
remember that one? It was a little bit
awkward because that wasn't really the
person he wanted to be running the
Federal Reserve. He was He wanted Larry
Summers. Yeah, he wanted someone else.
Larry Summers wanted Larry Summers, too.
>> And Summers wanted Summers. I think
Summers always wants Summers, doesn't
he? But President Obama wanted Larry
Summers, but he ended up with Janet
Yellen. So, I I don't think this one's
going to be awkward, though, because the
president has known Kevin Warsh for
years.
>> No, I don't think this is This is the
guy he wanted, obviously.
>> Yes, and also has a family relationship
there. I mean, he's friends with Kevin
Warsh's father-in-law. So, I think the
president is going to be so excited at
this ceremony.
>> Warsh is hopeful that the president
doesn't say anything about where he
thinks rates should be. Yes.
>> And at least the volumes come down on
that touch.
>> Kevin Warsh is hoping it is going to be
strictly a signing ceremony and not an
event where journalists can come in and
ask questions.
>> Best of luck to him. Looking forward to
that signing ceremony.
That oath that's going to be taken a
little bit later this week. Coming up,
Ajay Rajadhyaksha of Barclays, Liberty
Media CEO Derek Chang, [music] and we'll
catch up with the central bank governors
of both France and Germany. Look out for
that a little bit later in the next hour
on Bloomberg Surveillance.
We're seeing a bifurcated S&P 500
[music] for sure.
>> The AI theme is best expressed right now
in US large cap growth stocks. It's hard
to know who's in a bubble.
>> We are seeing a weakening in [music] the
overall AI story. If it is, in fact, a
bubble. Nobody knows when it will pop.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action and scores look
like this. Pulling further back from
all-time highs on the S&P 500. Down on
Friday, down on Monday, down Tuesday
morning so far by 0.5% [music]
-0.8
on the Nasdaq. The bond market not
helping. Yield higher across the curve
up by almost four basis points now at
the [music] front end, approaching 4.1%
on 10s, back through 460 on 30s. Hello
515. Yields up by close to three basis
points at the long end of the curve.
Again, [music] a number we haven't seen
going back to 2007 on a closing basis.
In the commodity market, crude is
[music] okay. The today it's
well-behaved, but it's not helping out
bonds, and that's not helping out
stocks. Crude around 111 on Brent, WTI
around 108. [music]
>> Crude may be taking on some of that
verbal intervention from the White
House. The president said he had planned
to strike, he pulled back on it calling
it off at least for the next few days
[music] and this was at the behest of
Arab allies and he says that
negotiations are ongoing. But we've been
here so many times. So some parts of the
market are taking it that it's [music]
real and some others are kind of
brushing it off until they see something
more tangible. On top of that [music]
though, the oil market is probably going
to be helped by an OFAC license. That
Russian crude gets another [music] 30
days. So you can continue to buy Russian
oil that's at sea. Potentially though,
it does show that this administration is
[music] going to be looking for ways to
try to add more barrels to the market
because we are going to peak driving
season and things may get tense
domestically.
>> That move in energy is exposing weakness
[music] in fixed income. Underlying
weakness that hasn't been addressed for
quite a while. You get a move in energy
which drives
CPI to multi-year highs which exposes
limited fiscal space in certain
governments across [music] the West
which highlights leadership issues and
problem in places like the UK and
elsewhere. And this is why the G7 has
got language like this this morning.
Policy responses to the war should be
fiscally responsible. I'm not sure they
have any choice because this bond market
is prepared to push back.
>> And especially for Europe, it's very
challenging to remember they're off the
heels of a different energy crisis when
Russia [music] invaded Ukraine. So this
is why they've been here before and it's
very concerning for them. When you look
at what's going on in the bond market,
you say that we are for 30-year yields.
We haven't been since 2007. Barclays
strategist is saying we could push 5.5%.
We haven't [music] been since 2004 and
BlackRock research is saying stay away
from developed [music] market government
bonds and just go into equities. Yields
this morning up across the curve. Coming
up this hour, Achut Rajendran of
Barclays with stocks looking to snap a
two-day slide. Liberty Media CEO Derek
Chang with the Formula 1 season in full
swing and Jake Goldberg of Seaport with
a street low price target on Nvidia. We
begin this hour with stocks drifting
lower and bond yields remaining near
multi-decade highs. Ajay Rajadhyaksha of
Barclays writes in both stocks and bonds
look unappealing at this point. We
expect the risk rally to now take a step
back. Ajay joins us now for more. Ajay,
good morning. Good to see you. Good
morning. I think we need to catch up on
where we were. You were very
constructive on the equity market. We
caught up recently the last couple of
weeks and you said it's not that we
didn't think the situation in the Middle
East mattered, we just didn't think it
mattered yet. We have the yet now. We
have that point right now.
>> I I think we are at that point. We are
now getting to a point where every week
the world is drawing down more rapidly
on oil inventories. And the bond move in
particular, remember when I was here 3
weeks ago, right? You pressed me for an
answer on what I would buy and I
basically [laughter] went hamana hamana.
You know, I I I couldn't have an answer.
Uh that's pretty much where I am still.
I think the bond move is not something
you get in the middle of. It's real and
it will last, I worry. Well, let's pick
up on the curve right now. Let's go
through these numbers. 460 on 10s, 5% on
30s. We've seen 460, these kind of
levels a few times in the last few
years. Typically, it becomes
self-limiting. You get to a point and
then people worry about growth. People
start buying bonds again. This time,
I've seen a variety of research point to
this belief that maybe this part of the
market, long end of the curve, maybe
pushing out to 30s become unhinged or
untethered. You're worried about the
same thing.
>> I think at the very least I'm worried
about a drift higher in longer rates.
And it's for the reasons you said,
Jonathan. So, first is we do have a
catalyst in terms of an inflation shock
coming from oil continuing to last high
for longer. But second, these are the
sins of years and years starting to pile
up. I mean, it's not just the United
States, across the West, we've been
spending money like a drunken sailor on
shore leave for at least a decade and
that's coming back to haunt us now.
We've lost our anchors. You used to be
the chairman of the debt market. Used to
be chairman of JPM. You could get away
doing funny stuff because you had these
two dominant markets just holding down
global yields. They've gone away. What's
the anchor now for fixed income?
I don't know. I I think
the US is an easier answer because there
is going to be a clearing price at which
private investors come in. We do have
the privilege of being the reserve
currency, weaker as it is in in recent
years. I Believe it or not, I worry more
about countries like France, like the
United Kingdom, where there's a bad mix
of both politics and economics. In both
countries, in the United Kingdom, you're
talking about four prime ministers in
four years. You might get a fifth now.
In the On the French side, you've had
five prime ministers in the last 2 and
1/2 years. That is not coherent policy.
When it comes to this bond market,
potentially we saw last year the bond
market be the reason the president had
an about-face when it comes to tariffs.
Do you think this could this is the bond
market pushing back potentially on this
conflict in Iran?
I think at the very least the conflict
in Iran is now starting to be a catalyst
because one of the things that has
happened on my desk is everyone has
pushed up their 2026 averages
You know, as every week passes, people
are just marking to market and saying,
"Look, we, for example, when I came here
last I thought oil would average $85 to
$90 a barrel. I think we'll now average
$100 a barrel." So, for all of 2026
>> of 2026. And remember, the first 2
months weigh against that argument,
right? Because we ran at $70. So, this
is a pretty big problem. It is a pretty
big energy shock, and the bond market is
reacting to that. And what does this
mean for equities? Higher energy prices?
So, I have hesitated going short
equities just because the power of
earnings has scared me. And then you had
momentum. But I think we are getting
very, very close to the point. I mean,
you ask me to pick a side right now, I
would not own equities here.
Well, that's stocks versus bonds.
You say you don't pick a side. You mean
short versus long. It's It's
unfortunately a non-answer, Jonathan,
but there's nothing that is attractive.
>> No, no, I understand. I understand. When
was the last time you were in this
position?
Not for a long time. Not for a long
time. No, and you're for a while. It
feels like this has been a while. When
was the last time? Can you think back to
it? What were the conditions then that
got you to this place? Does this feel
unique? At the absolute bottoms of
COVID, but I was massively wrong just
because I didn't know where, you know,
whether system was going to work, where
the next
policy reaction was coming from. This is
not remotely like that in terms of
magnitude. I don't I don't mean to imply
that, but
I mean, the the earning story is so
strong that it's very hard to go
decisively in the other direction. The
bond yield move is significant, but it's
still not appealing enough. No one's
making any progress on the fiscal side.
There's no political will to do
anything, and you're about to get an
inflation shock. I just don't know where
to go. Well, let's stay with the pound
side of things. This is where things are
confusing for a lot of people. For a
whole host of reasons, and we can go
through them. One is energy.
The other is limited fiscal space.
The other is weak leadership. Hello, UK.
We talked about that. France as well,
that's been a problem for a long, long
time. There's another issue in the mix
as well, which needs to be addressed.
Let's isolate that and talk about it.
And that's the reaction function of the
Federal Reserve.
And it's not clear right now what Kevin
Warsh is going to decide to do, look to
anchor. When you first saw this shock,
Chairman Powell came out and tried to
anchor inflation expectations, planted
that flag almost straight away in the
news conference. You could see that was
where the emphasis was. Do you know what
the emphasis will be next month at the
next Fed meeting?
>> Well, I should start by saying the Fed,
if you look at financial markets, has
very clearly not lost inflation
credibility. So, if you look at 5-year
5-year inflation break-evens, they are
still pricing in you look through the
next 5 years to 5 years beyond, they're
pricing in 2% on core inflation,
literally. Okay, so the starting point
on a credibility standpoint is good.
But, I don't for a minute see how the
Fed can deliver rate cuts this year.
Genuinely, regardless of what the
motivation might have been, you know,
behind the decision to to nominate Chair
Warsh, I'm not even saying that that was
the reason. Reason.
I think they're just going to have to
wait it out.
Years ago, Governor Waller told me
something that has stuck in my mind. He
said, "Look,
base effects are a central banker's best
friend. So, when you get a supply shock,
which is the shock that you're getting
right now on the oil front, right? The
Fed can't do anything by hiking interest
rates to make oil flow more freely. It
cannot do anything by cutting interest
rates to you know, you're not supposed
to cushion the shock through monetary
policy. You just sit on the sidelines.
And that's what they're going to do. So,
I don't think the Fed is is going to be
a
driver of longer yields going even
further here.
But, the starting point is just very
poor. I mean, that's all there is to it.
>> You don't You don't see a cut. You don't
see a hike, either. I do not see a hike.
Where will the next move be once the war
is over?
I think the war over is actually not a
catalyst for a move. Let's start with
that. So, for the rest of 2026, I think
the Fed sits squarely on the sidelines.
Say the war is over. They will take
their cue from data. And one of the
problems for both the front end and the
bond market as a whole, Anne Marie, has
been that the US economy has held up. It
has to You saw retail sales last week,
for example, right? The consumer savings
rate is very low. They're not creating
any net jobs to speak of. It doesn't
matter. The consumer keeps spending. So,
one of the best things that could happen
from a macro standpoint, near term,
strange as it sounds, to prevent this
one-way move in bonds, is for data to
weaken.
If that doesn't happen, I think the the
Fed stays on the sidelines. But, more
importantly, the bond move doesn't stop.
10s of five, but I can't even trust it.
Weak Yes. I I think another 40, 45 basis
points would get me interested.
>> for you. That is the number for me. That
And not because I think things magically
improve, but there is a clearing price
at which private investors come in.
I don't know how to solve the equation
for economies like France, for example,
where last year inflation ran at five
The deficit ran at 5% and nominal growth
ran below two. That's the circle that I
have a very, very hard time squaring.
I don't think you got a bond crisis this
year, Jonathan, because you debt
management office still offices still
have something up their sleeve. They can
keep issuing lower coupons in in the
long end. But,
and they can stave it off, but every
time you get a headline, it's going to
be in the upward But, this is the
problem in places like the UK. I
struggle with the same story. You could
shorten up duration as much as you like,
but ultimately if you're facing an
inflation shock and your central bank
might respond to it, you've got
problems.
>> I mean, do you remember last July where
there was a lot of news in the UK press
about how Chancellor Reeves was seen
getting emotional in Parliament? The
more significant part that week, if you
remember, was that Labour with a
160-seat majority in a 650-seat
Parliament wanted to pass a small cut to
the winter fuel allowance and faced an
open parliamentary revolt. There is no
political will anywhere. This is where
I'm really struggling with places like
the UK. And what I said yesterday on the
program, I'm not really too interested
right now in who leads the government,
because you're not going to see the
changes required to get this country,
this economy on a better trajectory
unless you see massive pressure coming
from fixed income.
That spells out a very dreadful story
for the future of UK finances.
>> shock. Hopefully, it doesn't require
that, but Things have to get worse.
There is a chance that the only way that
policy make And, you know, it didn't
used to be this way. I'm completely
dating myself. In 2011,
US Congress got so worked up, they
established a bipartisan commission
called Erskine-Bowles, because they
thought US debt to GDP was too high. You
know what our debt to GDP was then? 60%.
We are over 100 and going to 120, and no
one cares.
>> [laughter]
>> I remember that.
>> very quiet in the US, hasn't it? But,
we've got that privilege stateside that
the UK doesn't seem to have at the
moment.
>> Yeah, but even so, you can't run 6 and
1/2% deficits indefinitely without the
market With unemployment close to four.
With unemployment close to four. I
agree. Actually, I could talk to you all
day. It's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Ajay Rajadhyaksha there of Barclays
on this fixed income market. 10's at 5
it gets interesting.
10's right now at 460, not so much
apparently. Yields have bite just two
basis points on the session so far.
Let's give an update on news worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn
has more. Hey Vonnie. Hey John, thank
you. President Donald Trump calling off
planned strikes against Iran today.
Trump [music] saying Gulf allies asked
for more time to seek a diplomatic
resolution. Adding the US remains
prepared [music] to attack if an
acceptable deal isn't reached.
Nvidia expects China will eventually
allow AI chips to be imported from the
US. [music]
My sense is that the demand in China is
so incredible. Just like it is here. A
gigantic AI is also making enormous
progress there. My sense is that over
time
the market will open.
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang telling
Bloomberg he didn't discuss the
company's H200 chips during his trip to
China with President Trump. Nvidia
reports earnings after the bell
tomorrow.
And it's going to be a hot one here in
New York City. The National Weather
Service issuing a heat advisory advisory
for the city and New Jersey with
temperatures expected [music] to soar
well into the 90s. Late day
thunderstorms on Wednesday are expected
to bring temperatures right [music]
down. And that is your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Vonnie, thank you. I live for it. The
winter is so long in the Northeast. I
know, it's time for the beach.
>> are so dark. But the promise of summer
just keeps you alive, doesn't it?
>> And you can bleed there for $95.
>> Unlike the UK.
>> [laughter]
>> Where the winter is so dark.
And the winter is so long.
And there is no promise of summer
whatsoever apart from maybe a few weeks
[music] in in August and July. Basically
one week. There's one always amazing
week.
>> is amazing. And London honestly, nowhere
better when the sun is shining. Yeah.
But it's just it's just rare and that's
the problem.
>> 5 days and that's it. Okay. Futures this
morning negative 5 0.4%. [music]
Up next we'll get you some morning calls
plus Liberty Media CEO Derek Shank on
F1, MotoGP [music] and Live Nation.
>> We were seeing certain extremes in some
of this trading. And you also saw this
this narrowness [music]
really not be consistent with an overall
new high in market. So it made this
fragile. We think it is a pause, but at
the end of the day when you have an over
18% weight in a cohort of names that
went [music] vertically up, a simple
correction in those names back to trend
could be damaging for the overall market
cap weighted index. That was Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth on this equity
market a little bit earlier on this
morning. Your equity market right now
negative by some 0.4% [music]
on the Nasdaq down by 3/4 of 1%. Call it
8/10 of 1% going into the cash open 1
hour and 12 minutes away. That's the
price action. Let's get you some more
Nicole's. First up City raising its
price target on SanDisk to 2025 seeing
persistently strong storage demand and a
highly favorable pricing environment.
The stock struggled in the last [music]
24 hours. It's down this morning by 3%.
Your second call from Mizuho raising its
price target on Micron to 800 seeing
positive impacts from AI data centers on
memory chip makers. That name also lower
down by 2.4% this morning. And your
third and final call from HSBC raising
[music] its price target on Nvidia to
325 expecting a beat and a raise in the
company's earnings report tomorrow
[music]
after the close. That name is down by
some 1%. Let's head back over to JP
Morgan's annual technology media and
communications conference underway in
Boston. Lisa standing by with another
special guest. Hey Lisa.
Hey John. Thank you so much. I am here
with Derek Chang. He is the CEO of
Liberty Media. Also is sitting on the
board of the oversight
Liberty
Media's uh off subsidiary that oversees
Live Nation. Derek, thank you so much
for being here. Really appreciate it.
>> Lisa, thanks for having me. So, I want
to start with the idea that everyone
here is talking about scale, getting
enough scale, merging up particularly in
the media space. You moved in the
opposite direction last year, breaking
up into a host of different entities.
Can you talk about why you decided to do
that?
Well, I think if you look at Liberty
Media over that history, it's had a
history of sort of expansion,
contraction, you know, we kind of go
with the flow a little bit depending on
on what circumstances are and what the
market is is,
you know, asking for and what we think
that we should be doing for our
shareholders. So, I don't think in this
particular moment it was a specific
strategy of we're we're ultimately going
on a on a trail of of just sort of
getting smaller. It was clarifying and
simplifying the structures and so,
delivering to shareholders sort of what
assets they want in what places at this
particular moment. But, you know, over
time we have had tracking stocks, we
have spun out companies, and now we're
sort of back to a more simplified
structure. And it's really to provide
that clarity for shareholders. So, you
oversee your two main properties at
Liberty Media are Formula 1 and MotoGP,
which is relatively new in the US, very
big in Europe and Southeast Asia. I'm
just wondering how you're thinking about
a media strategy. You just signed this
five-year deal with Apple in terms of
streaming rights. Is it the same between
streaming and legacy cable networks? Is
it sort of all the same at this point
when it comes to sports licensing?
Well, I think it still depends on
market, on what market you're actually
in. And so, in a lot of markets like the
US at this point, the streamers have a,
you know, you just spoke about scale, a
lot of scale. And I think that
historically people have said, "Oh, you
got to be on a broadcast network,
otherwise you're not going to have the
reach." I don't think that's true
anymore. And I think the deal that we
did with Apple.
Basically it's shown that that is you
know for us Apple has we've seen no real
drop off in terms of viewership and in
fact engagement overall is higher than
it was before
in the early sort of going here the
first three or four races that we've had
this year. And I think what that speaks
to is streaming platform certainly in
the US have reached a level of maturity
and even beyond you'd say and you see it
right now with sort of what's going on
at the NFL. Their recent deals that
they're doing so clearly it's part of
sort of mainstream viewing habits and
this whole concept I think that people
would the knock on streaming was also
you don't you lose sort of the sampling
effect. And I think what you see with
our deal deal with Apple is is that
people sample in different ways. You go
into an Apple store or you watch other
content that's on Apple TV or Apple
Music or what they do with Apple Maps
which they did in the Miami race where
they they sort of created an apps you
know integrated into Apple Maps with the
with stuff around the Miami race and
they had special content for that race.
So you've got platforms now that because
of the technology they have because of
their sort of Apple's case singular
focus on Formula 1 the ability to
actually expand your audiences in
different ways than you ever have. Do
you think that you're going to move to a
Netflix type of model that you did with
F1 when it comes to MotoGP in the US
where you have a TV series about it and
you sort of broadcast it to popular
consumption in a way to democratize
exactly what it is. Well I think what
you're going to see with MotoGP is a lot
of what we did with Formula 1. There
will be similar applications of that. So
the biggest thing for us with MotoGP is
how do you take the sport which at its
core is a very pure
sport and a huge you know passionate fan
base and how do you expand that?
How do you get more people engaged
whether it's in the US or worldwide and
I think you do that by telling a story
and we haven't told Moto GP has never
really told that story and you do that
through writers, you do that through the
action on the track and you do that sort
of in multiple ways through content,
through
through fan activation at races, through
the licensing partners and the
sponsorship partners that you have. But
I do think the content piece of this is
a very important part. Whether you do it
as a show just like Drive to Survive, I
don't know if that's necessarily going
to happen because it's a different sport
and you want to remain authentic to your
fan base and to the fans that you're
trying to attract. So we will figure out
things that we can do in and around Moto
GP that sort of creates the same impact
and making it available and making it
accessible to as broad a fan base as
possible. You also helped to oversee
Live Nation the Live Nation investment
is through the Liberty board. Now I'm
curious from your perspective,
ticket prices are really expensive.
Everyone talks about it, everyone
complains about it, but the inflation in
ticket prices to go see events is
incredibly high and then they still go.
How do you understand the inflation at
ticket prices?
Whether it's World Cup and what's going
on there or whether it's basketball at
Madison Square Garden and understand
what's the right pricing. How do you do
that strategy?
Well, the reality is it's it is simple
supply and demand right? And so I think
what you're seeing is there's huge
demand for live entertainment, live
events. And you know, I see this through
the Formula 1 lens where our Paddock
Club is for the most part sold out
through the through the rest of the year
here already.
>> club. That's the high-end, you know,
ticket tickets and and hospitality that
we offer and I think there's just so
much demand
for these sorts of experiences that
the reality is you could probably, you
know, create
multiples of of availability and it's
still going to sell. I don't know about,
you know, the specific event specific
ticket pricing strategy for those,
um, but I think ultimately what you're
speaking to is is there's just this
demand, this pent-up demand for live
entertainment that that, you know, you
continue to see, um, despite the fact
that there are a lot of different things
that people can go to, but I think
that's the allure of that and the
appeal.
And for different people it's different
reasons, right? Some people go
specifically for the racing, some people
go for the racing and for the food, some
people go for the racing and for the
celebrities. Whatever it is, there's
this just attraction to it. And I think
we're bringing that to the fans. Derek
Tang, thank you so much for being with
us. Derek Tang, CEO of Liberty Media.
See that, John? You're talking about how
expensive the World Cup tickets are and
maybe it's just that the food is really,
really good if you go to the right seats
and you get to be part of a great
experience.
>> I'm doubtful of that. Doubtful of that.
Brahma, thank you. Appreciate it.
Looking forward to 6 weeks of
complaining about ticket prices
at a World Cup. Coming up on the
program, a pair of central bank
governors, check [music] this out. This
is going to be fantastic. We will hear
from the French central bank governor
and the German central bank governor as
well from the G7 on the future of rate
policy at the European [music] Central
Bank. That conversation just around the
corner. Plus, Danny is going to have
some morning movers for you. Memory
stocks falling as the chip slump
continues.
The opening bell about [music] 60
minutes away, equities pulling back by
0.4% on the S&P. We're down by 0.8 on
the Nasdaq. Some jitters in tech. Talk
about that a little bit later. Danny's
going to have some single names [music]
for you. But the S&P 500, also some
headwinds coming from the bond market,
fixed income yields drifting higher
again this [music] morning. 10 to the
moment around 462, 30s at around 515,
and 2s still comfortably above the
policy rate of the Federal Reserve. The
2-year yield around 4.1%. As we count
down to the cash open, let's get you
some single names to morning movers.
Danny Berger has more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Starting with earnings and
apparel, Under Armour Sports doing very
well today, up 3.6%.
Their [music] Salomon shoes, they're
very popular. You can see them basically
going everywhere, and so that's
supported their earnings along with
their brand Arc'teryx. Interestingly,
they said that people are buying
full-price items. They're not having to
put things on sale, which is helping
them. Again, shares moving higher
[music] in the premarket. Now, some of
the jitters around tech that you
mentioned, a lot of the AI stocks
continue to sell off the chip makers
after this huge run that they've been
on. You look at Sandisk, down 3%,
Seagate, down 3 and 1/2, Micron, down
2.5%. [music] Part of that is just
higher yields to turn and risk
sentiment, but also you had the Seagate
CEO uh saying at the J.P. Morgan
conference that Lisa is at uh that they
can't meet all of the demand. They don't
have enough capacity. It's maybe a good
problem to have, but even so, the sector
selling off. But one little piece of
evidence that might show that this is
something mechanical, this is taking
profit and covering your shorts is
what's happening in software. Because
while AI has been selling off, the flip
side of that are the best performers
premarket in the S&P 500 are software
names. ServiceNow, one of the best
large-cap performers, up 5.3%. Workday,
Salesforce, all of them are up around
2%. Again, no specific news tied to
them, but maybe just a flip side [music]
of the AI sell-off, John. One to watch
going into the Opening Bell. Danny,
thank you. Thanks for the update. Just
had to double-check that Miller is in
the building [music] today before
promote the show. Matt is here.
Matthew Miller will be attending his own
show at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time in about
30 minutes time alongside Danny Berger.
So, look out for that. They'll guide you
into the Opening Bell. Let's talk about
monetary policy, the future of monetary
policy, and the pressure building on
some central banks to maybe consider
hiking interest rates. Perhaps the ECB
will be the first. With two special
guests, our good friend Ollie Crook on
the ground of the G7. He joins us now
for more. Hey, Ollie.
Yeah, that's right, Jonathan. We're here
at the G7 Finance Ministers meeting with
central bank governors in Paris at the
French Finance Ministry. The big
question in the room, the effect of the
war in Iran on inflation, on growth. And
we're very lucky to be joined up by one,
but by two ECB Governing Council
members, the governor of the Banque de
France, François Villeroy de Galhau, and
the president of the Deutsche
Bundesbank, Joachim Nagel. And thank you
both for joining us today. Since you're
the host, I'll begin with you, Mr.
Villeroy de Galhau, and try to get your
assessment first of the conversation in
the room among the G7 and what the sort
of idea of collective action. What is
appropriate at the G7 level to dampen
the effect that we've seen from this
war? So, first, as you are perhaps
aware, this happened to be my last G7
meeting, and I was delighted to welcome
my friend Joachim Nagel and all my
colleagues from the G7.
So, I can compare through the last 11
years, and I can frankly say that this
Paris G7 was very good a very good G7.
We are in difficult circumstances. You
mentioned them.
But the discussion was lucid, without
any complacency. Uh it was a free
discussion at the highest possible
level.
And it was a confident discussion.
And we shared the analyses on global
economies. We shared the will to reduce
global imbalances, to address the
negative consequences of the conflict in
the Middle East. And for us central
bankers, we are fully determined to
bring inflation back to target. And I'd
like to get in if you could share with
us some of your joint analysis of that
that situation right now. The ECB has
given us a framework by which to think
about this, the base case, the adverse
effect, the severe. I'd like to get both
of your perspectives on where we lay on
that in terms of the impact of this war.
Maybe before I come to this, I have to
congratulate France, Francois as well. I
think was an excellent meeting.
And you alluded to it. We were
Now, we were let me say outspoken in a
way. We really recognize this this is a
delicate situation and we had an open
discussion.
And so this was a very fruitful very
fruitful
meeting here in Paris. Coming back to
your question where we are. I think
this whole conflict started
more than 3 months ago.
Now we know that this energy supply
shock is more it's more persistent.
So we are moving away
from our baseline scenario. And so this
is I guess
I believe a fair description of of where
we are at the moment.
>> Does that mean that we are now in the
adverse and severe scenario? How are you
thinking about it? Because that's the
framework the ECB has put out for us to
think about.
>> It is as always, we will take our
decision on data. We will come to
together in in in June and then we will
have our decision based on data. But
I alluded to it.
There is a high it's a higher
probability now that we are now away
from that baseline scenario. That means
that maybe we have to do something.
>> And one of the big questions is about
the secondary effects and whether or not
this inflation is spreading from just
the energy headline level to the broader
core. What is your analysis of that at
the moment?
>> insist on the fact that figures are very
volatile if you look at financial
markets. So we shouldn't focus on that
point. We look at the trend.
As Joachim just said, as this conflict
is lasting for longer, we have to look
at more structural long-term
consequences.
To give two obvious examples, we
discussed financial stability and the
bonds market situation. We also have to
accelerate our energy diversification.
And reducing the dependency of most of
our countries starting with Europe from
fossil energy. It's obvious, but let us
not limit our response to an emergency
answer.
On the the monetary answer, I think the
data will matter more than a precise
date. And this is focused on the second
round effects. So for the market's
expectations, so they say that there's
going to be two to three rate hikes from
the ECB this year beginning in June. Are
you comfortable with that analysis? Do
you find that that is a correct
interpretation of what we've seen so
far?
>> it's not helpful to speculate about
maybe the numbers or when do we what? I
think this is not helpful. I think this
meeting-to-meeting approach based on the
data that we have on that meeting, this
is the right way to do it. So we showed
our commitment over the last four years.
We we hiked 10 times, we lowered eight
times, and we we show the same
commitment when we're coming together
for our next meeting. Do you think that
the French Yeah. Can I add on markets
two things? We are not market-driven, we
are data-driven, obviously. That said,
through markets there is a tightening of
financial conditions, and it already
plays a role in fighting inflation
threats.
So we we will see
and I think that this is the most
important commitment. We we showed it in
the last four years.
But European households, European firms
can trust us
ECB, Bundesbank, Banque de France to
bring inflation back to target. And this
is, believe me, the most important
commitment.
>> you're not market-driven necessarily,
the market can have bearing on the
economy and how things develop. We've
seen a move in the bond market recently.
How do you interpret that move? You just
spoke recently about obviously part of
it is inflation expectation. You said
part of it is political risk. What
political risk? Well, there are First,
it's a global phenomenon, and not only a
European one,
uh, beyond the G7,
uh, and
there are at least three explanations.
First is global uncertainty, obviously,
and political uncertainty in some
jurisdiction, some question about fiscal
policies, and they must remain sound and
sustainable.
And further, let us be honest, fears of
inflation. This is where of our
commitment matters most. And I think
just just trying to nail you down on
this one point on the question of
inflation, do you find that it is
currently still segregated to the energy
sector? And if it is so, is there a
world in which you look through it this
next rate decision in the sense that it
is just at the headline level? So, what
I know from inflation and how inflation
might develop, it's pretty much
dependent on the duration of the shock.
And I already said it, I alluded to it.
The probability is rising that that we
will see more inflation everywhere. And
this is something we have to take into
consideration, and and we will do this
in our next meeting. How much do you
think the story on yields is not just
about inflation, but also concerns in
Europe that were a bit stretched sort of
fiscally? There isn't the firepower cuz
we look at the sort of fullness of what
we've seen in financial markets, growth
being dampened, inflation rising, while
at the same time equity markets in the
United States parabolic, and now yields
rising, the bond market catching up.
Does that not sort of hold the some of
the ingredients for sort of untidy
unwind in financial markets? Does that
concern you?
>> Well, I think
it is not a comfortable situation. This
is for sure. I think we on the monetary
policy side, we should be focused on our
mandate, and this is price stability.
And everyone has to take responsibility
to here. Is it fiscal?
Is it our job? I think it is a delicate
situation, but if everyone is taking
the respective responsibility, then we
can more or less calm markets.
Yeah, if I can add two things. First,
fiscal policy must remain sound. That
means that there could be some measures
to address the negative consequences for
the most vulnerable in our country. But
this measures must be targeted,
temporary, and tailored. We said it
unanimously during the G7. And can I add
another thing if I compare with the US
or some Asian jurisdiction? There's also
in this situation a positive supply
shock on artificial intelligence, AI.
And it's really of the essence that
Europe accelerate on its innovation and
on its growth. This is about the Draghi
and Letta agenda. We called for it
together 18 months ago.
And the present situation
is not a reason less to focus on
structural reform. It's a reason more to
accelerate on innovation in Europe. And
I couldn't agree more. There's a lot we
can do on the European side. We have to
do our homework. Is it the savings and
and the investment union? Is it the
banking union? We have so many things on
our plate where we can do a lot to more
or less diminish the this whole
uncertainty.
>> And in those conversations you were
having with finance ministers from the
monetary policy perspective, what advice
did you give about fiscal policy in
terms of not stoking the inflation side
of the equation?
>> Triple T.
And can I add that we have the IMF was
around the table and they have an
interesting tracker of the fiscal
measures they can so far.
I don't say that they are all fully
compliant with the triple T targeted,
temporary, and tailored. But if you look
at the magnitude, the magnitude is much
more limited than 4 years ago. And this
is welcome. Well, gentlemen, thank you
so much for your time. The governor of
the Bank of France and the president of
the Deutsche Bundesbank for joining us
here at the sidelines of the G7 finance
ministers and central bankers meeting
here in Paris.
Ali, thank you, buddy. Appreciate it.
Thanks for all of that. Fantastic
conversation on the European Central
Bank. Two individuals well aware of the
history of hawkish policy mistakes at
the ECB. Then it was under Trichet going
against the 2008 financial crisis, also
heading into the sovereign debt crisis
in the Eurozone as well, hiking interest
rates in response to guess what? A
moving crude, particularly around 2008,
and the jitters around the inflation
outlook and the inflation mandate. The
date's important here. The next meeting
is June 11th. The two individuals there
we're talking about the duration of the
shock, this time here between now and
then. I've got no idea where we'll be
between now and then. Where we'll be on
June 11th. Communication's important
here, and I would say this is a
communication exercise for these central
bank governors right now. They want to
commit to the idea that they'd be
willing to hike interest rates if they
need to.
And that's important because what it
achieves is a tightening of financial
conditions, which helps to anchor
inflation expectations, and you heard
them say that themselves. But the
markets right now is doing some of the
work for them. Right, and you heard that
from Nagel. Maybe we have to do
something in June. Maybe we have to do
things in June. Everyone knows that June
is going to be a live meeting, and just
those words themselves may help set the
bar and anchor, as you say, those
financial expectations. It's going to be
an interesting time because, to your
point, we don't know where we're going
to be with energy prices, which is
heavily impacting Europe right now
between now and June 11th.
>> Still a few weeks away. Just a few weeks
away. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vanya Quinn has more.
Hey Vanya. Hey John, thank you. The
Sandi fire in Simi Valley, California
remains uncontained. [music]
California authorities saying fire
activity is slowing thanks to calmer
winds and higher humidity.
>> [music]
>> 750 firefighters are working to build
containment lines while helicopters drop
water on hotspots.
Meta is cutting jobs and reassigning
7,000 workers to new jobs related to AI.
According to an internal memo, the
Facebook parent will announce staff cuts
later in the week as part of an effort
to improve efficiency and offset [music]
its investments in AI.
In sports, the Mets beating the
Washington Nationals in historic
fashion. New York becoming the first
National League team score these 10 runs
in an extra inning since the 1919
Cincinnati Reds. The Mets topping the
Washington Nationals 16 to 7 in 12
innings. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> If only, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we set
you up for the day ahead looking towards
the earnings from Nvidia tomorrow after
the closing bell. Numbers from Target as
well for the week. Plus, of course,
we'll hear from Walmart later on this
week on Thursday. In just a moment,
we'll catch you with Jay Goldberg of
Seaport. The lone sell on Nvidia
>> [music]
>> heading into a monster earnings report
tomorrow afternoon. That conversation
just around the corner.
There's two sectors that lead the equity
market. One is energy, the other's tech.
In those periods when energy lead and
commodities lead, you build over
capacity. That lowers the overall price.
Investors chase duration, which is
growth stories, tech, and the rest of
it. But eventually, you run out of out
of energy, run out of commodity
capacity, and that's where we are today.
That was Jeff Currie of ABR X Markets.
Great to catch up with a legend of the
commodity market a little bit earlier on
this morning breaking down on what he
thinks [music] is is going to happen
here. We've seen a bust a few times,
haven't we? Saw the bust in mining post
the China boom, saw the bust in shale
about a 10 years ago, middle of the last
decade or so. And that's led to a long
period
of this sector, [music] those sectors
being starved of CapEx. And Jeff thinks
you need much higher prices ultimately
to get that investment [music] to come
back here. I loved and powered it's also
a play. How many times have we been
warned about peak oil? Also members of
the Biden administration talked about
stranded assets when it comes to the oil
when the comes to the [music] oil space.
Obviously that's not happening now, but
what's so interesting and Jeff is
basically saying we're just living off
of these inventories
>> [music]
>> is when is it finally going to bleed
through prices? What he is talking about
in terms of the concerns of the physical
market.
>> Jeff talked about the revenge of the old
economy. Check out the full interview on
bloomberg.com and of course on the
Bloomberg terminal. Here's the price
action for you going into the opening
bell the cash open just around the
corner about 41 minute away. We've got
equities down by a third of 1% on the
S&P 500 [music]
on the NASDAQ we're down by 0.5 some
problems with chips and memory stocks.
These are the names that have run up
aggressively since the March 30th low
the end of March and that low up by
something like 70% on the chip [music]
players going into Thursday, Friday and
the problems we experienced going into
the weekend. We've got some negative
follow through on the NASDAQ we're down
by 0.6. In the bond market yields high
once again notable
>> [music]
>> 10s at 462 up by three or four basis
points at the front end and on 10s on
30s up by three to 515. [music]
That's the story in the bond market.
Here's the story for the week ahead and
the next couple of days Wednesday
earnings from Nvidia and Target plus in
the mix in the middle of that you'll get
some Fed minutes. Look out for that.
Let's see if there's any more hawkish
descent within the minutes. Just some
hawkish pushback to that easing bias of
the Federal Reserve. On Thursday results
from Walmart another round of jobless
claims PMI data in the mix as well. On
Friday main event Kevin Warsh steps up
to the plate. Sworn in
as Fed chair. That's going to be
interesting. First time at the White
House since Alan Greenspan in the late
1980s. Um it's going to be really an
interesting moment for the President of
the United States because he has been
drum voting Jay Powell. He wants lower
interest rates, but just this week he
told Fortune magazine basically resigned
to the fact that it might take longer
due to the fact that energy prices are
higher and saying we're going to see
what the where the figures are when this
war is over. And right now, Jonathan, we
are in paralysis with the conflict in
Iran.
>> That's the story for Friday. Let's talk
about the big story out tomorrow, Nvidia
earnings out after the close tomorrow
afternoon. Jay Goldberg of Seaport with
the loan sell rating and a street low
price target on the cheap maker. He
writes, "We think the semis market is
going to be choppy in the near term.
Nvidia remains constrained by high
expectations and serious supply
constraints." Jay joins us now from our
Jay, welcome to the program. What are
you expecting tomorrow afternoon?
I think Nvidia will will print a good
number, but not a great [clears throat]
number, and it will be
you know, not it'll be good. People will
be you know, won't be running for the
hills,
but I do think people won't see anything
that will meaningfully alter the story
or their look on it outlook on Nvidia.
Uh the stock has been sort of
underperforming
the sector all year long. I think that
will continue.
Jay, I would just love to get your read
on what's going on with China. I was
with the president on the trip.
Obviously, Jensen Huang was a
last-minute addition picked up at the
refueling stop. Do you think that this
summit is going to be the breakthrough
for an Nvidia to be able to sell those
chips into the Chinese market?
So, I think there has been some progress
there. Nvidia has been lobbying very
hard to get access back to China.
Uh I I think I think they've made some
progress. It's always hard to tell,
but I think first there's a question of
will will they be able to will will
customers actually buy them there?
Uh I think they're going to be limits
within China on purchases of Nvidia
chips cuz just the whole thing is so
political.
Uh and I think we're also at the point
where the damage has already been done.
We have a number of Chinese competitors
already loose in in the ecosystem
running around and that sort of cracked
open the door a little bit on Nvidia's
moat.
When it comes to that market though,
Nvidia at one point talked about it
being $50 billion for them. What kind of
numbers do you think actually it could
represent?
I think
I you know, the potential for the market
is is absolutely that big if not bigger.
I think that in the near term, I don't
see them getting much above single-digit
billion dollars in revenue from China
this year
assuming the restrictions are actually
opened.
Jake, can we talk about this sell
rating? You've had it on for quite a
while. Let's take the last 12 months.
You've had a sell rating on the stock.
The stock is up by some
65%
over that period, Jake. What would it
take for you to change your mind on this
name?
So, I've always positioned this call as
as an underperform. Like, I've never
told anyone to go out and short Nvidia.
That's obviously dangerous, but I do
think Nvidia has grown so big and become
so so dominant uh that it's hard for it
to sort of
be to beat that. Right? And And we've
seen that play out this year or even
longer, even late last year where it's
just underperformed the sector. We've
seen a lot of these stocks run 50, 100%
even in some cases this year. A lot of
their their peers and their competitors.
Uh and Nvidia just can't run like that.
Um They're a good company. They have
good products, but they're supply
constrained. Uh they're sold out for the
year. And once you're sold out, how do
you beat expectations? Right? We all
have a pretty good beat on what their
supply chain looks like. Uh and they
they've limited scope to raise prices.
Adding China to the mix will help a
little bit, um but in the grand scheme
of things, there's not much upside
to expectations here possible for them
anytime this year. Jake, with that in
mind, is that why you think AMD might be
the better opportunity to in the sector?
>> Yeah, I I think AMD has become becoming
a a serious competitor to Nvidia. Uh
Their their upcoming product, the MI250,
which is launching later this year into
next year, is on paper
very competitive with what Nvidia is
going to be offering. I think it's the
first time we've been able to say that
about AMD. They've always been close,
but now they're fully competitive. Um
and we have customers who can't get
enough Nvidia products, and so they're
turning to alternatives. Nvidia's
effectively leaving a lot of money on
the table and that's opened the door for
everybody else. And AMD is top of that
list. Jay, appreciate the clarity on
that. That's important. Jay Goldberg
there of SeaPort. AMD the preference
here versus say Nvidia and that sell is
not an outright sell. It's just an
underperform within the sector. I think
getting clarity on that is important
when people see that lone sell call on
that particular name.
>> And as you said, he's had that sell call
for months and the stock has just gone
up double digits and absolutely carrying
basically the entire equity market. But
his point is we know what the supply
chain is. We know what their outlook is
and if they have no more chips to sell,
then where's going to be the upside when
it comes to the stock?
>> Okay, one point. We are up 20% in 7 days
through Thursday last week, which is
something close to that's 900 billion
dollars plus close to a trillion dollars
of market cap on that name. I was
shocked that the market just moved on
the mere fact that he joined the
president on the refill stop to China to
go on this trip to Beijing. But I guess
the market viewed that as potentially
this is an opening for that market for
the H200s. Nvidia was talking about at
one point a few months ago 50 billion
dollars they can get from China. And you
heard there from Jay, he doesn't think
he can even crack a billion. That's the
main event tomorrow afternoon earnings
from Nvidia. Right now as we count you
down to the open about about 35 minutes
away. Equity futures still negative here
and down by third of 1% on the S&P 500
down across the board driven by moves in
chips and memory stocks. That's going to
be a feature of the story going into the
cash open. The bond market's not helping
out this morning. Yields are up across
the curve. Twos are up by four basis
points close to 4.1%. Tens are up three
or four basis points north of 460 and
30s at levels we haven't seen in a
couple of decades. You got to go back to
2007 to see a 30 year at 515. 515 this
morning and up by three basis points at
the long end of the curve. Crude
>> [snorts]
>> stable negative by a half of 1% on WTI.
Brent crude around 110 but the tension
>> [music]
>> and the blockade continues and that's
going to keep those numbers up there.
Coming up tomorrow, Keith Lerner of
Truist, Monica Guerra of Morgan Stanley,
Angelo Zino of CFRA, and David Kelly of
JPMorgan Asset Management from New York
City this morning. Good morning to all.
Thank you for choosing Bloomberg TV.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.